Since its inception in 1994, Texas has participated in the Federal Vaccines for Children Program (VFC). Our version is called the Texas Vaccines for Children Program (TVFC). The Program was initiated by the passage of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. This legislation guaranteed vaccines would be available at no cost to providers, in order to immunize children (birth - 18 years of age) who meet the eligibility requirements.Today there are more than 6,500 Texas providers enrolled in TVFC. Texas leads the nation in the number of uninsured and underinsured children. We also have over 3 million Texas children on Medicaid (Federal Fiscal Year 2009 data). Many of these children are not receiving the complete series of immunizations required to protect them from vaccine-preventable diseases.By enrolling in TVFC, you can provide innumerable benefits to the families in your practice, and to the people of Texas. One of the most important benefits is removing barriers to immunizations. For instance, you will no longer have to refer an uninsured child to a public health center for immunizations. TVFC removes the burden of the financial cost of vaccines, thereby eliminating the need to refer clients. Children are then kept in their medical home, which is beneficial to the provider and client. Families who are currently paying for vaccinations may be TVFC eligible.There are cost savings of immunizing versus treatment for diseases to taxpayers. For example, for every dollar spent on DTaP vaccine, $27.00 is saved in direct and indirect costs. Additionally, vaccine contracts are negotiated at a federal level, thus ensuring the lowest price and a standardized cost. Vaccine is ordered through regional state offices and is supplied to providers at no cost. A TVFC provider may not charge for the vaccine, but is permitted to charge a reasonable administration fee.TVFC does not tell enrolled providers whom they must see or dictate that they accept Medicaid clients. Providers continue to serve the same populations they have always served. Except now, through enrollment in the TVFC, more children will be receiving their complete series of immunizations. This benefits everyone by maintaining a higher level of immunity in our community. TVFC automatically covers all vaccines recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) and approved by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).A fully immunized society is necessary to reach optimum eradication of vaccine-preventable infectious diseases. With your help, we can reach these goals leading to a healthier Texas.