The National Vaccination Information Center is a group that has an official-sounding name, one that might make you think their message is trustworthy.Except, not so much. Or at all. Or really just the opposite.NVIC is an antivax group, plain and simple. Despite hugely overwhelming tsunami-level amounts of evidence showing no link between vaccines and autism, they still think there is one. They go on and on about vaccine injuries, yet actual severe side effects from vaccines are very rare, especially when you realize that many millions of vaccines are given every year. The NVIC relies on anecdotes of injuries as evidence, but that's very dangerous thinking. Stories and personal observations are a good place to startits how you might notice a connection between two thingsbut its not where you end. You must apply rigorous testing to your ideas, so that you can make sure youre not seeing a connection where none exists.But thats not what NVIC is about. They are convinced vaccines cause injuries, and ignore evidence that there isnt. On their site they take vaccine injuries as given:So I was properly disgusted when I heard they were putting up ads on billboards in four different states (Arizona, Illinois, Texas, and Oregon) using very misleading wording:Why is this misleading? Because, as Todd W. from Harpocrates Speaks points out, they dont mention the benefits. Everything in medicine is tradeoff between risks and benefits. In the case of vaccines, though, the benefits hugely, overwhelmingly outweigh the risks. If you live in the U.S., try to find someone who has polio. Or go anywhere in the world and see how many folks suffering from smallpox you can find. You wont find any: after killing hundreds of millions of people, smallpox was eradicated in the wild in 1977. Guess how.Saving millions of lives is a pretty good benefit. Ill note that the documented evidence for serious adverse reactions to vaccines is low, especially compared to the benefits as a whole.The billboards being used so misleadingly are owned by Clear Channel (who rents the space out), so I sent them a letter:Antivax thinking can cause a vast amount of damage. We are seeing outbreaks of all manners of preventable diseases like pertussis, measles, and more because fewer people are getting vaccinated. We need to maintain a high rate of vaccination to invoke herd immunity, where there arent enough places (that is, human bodies) for a dangerous virus or bacterium to live. This greatly reduces the spread of the disease to other people, including babies and immunosuppressed people (like folks with rheumatoid arthritis or who are getting cancer treatments).Getting vaccinated wont just help you stay healthy, it may save the life of people around you. Talk to your board certified doctor, and if they recommend it, make sure your vaccines are up to date, including boosters.