focused on the safety of polio vaccines. Two subsequent major reports, published in 1991 and 1994, examined the adverse effects of childhood vaccines. Since then, the IOM has conducted several smaller studies and workshops focused on various vaccine safety topics. These studies were well received by both the public and policymakers, and previous IOM committees on vaccine safety issues have been viewed as objective and credible.Given the sensitive nature of the present immunization safety review study, the IOM felt it was especially critical to establish strict criteria for committee membership. These criteria prevented participation by anyone with financial ties to vaccine manufacturers or their parent companies, or who had given expert testimony on issues of vaccine safety.The rationale for imposing these stringent criteria was twofold. First, given growing public concern about vaccine safety and the public scrutiny surrounding this committees work, it was important to establish standards that would preclude any real or perceived conflict of interest or bias on the part of the committee members. No member has any vested interest in any of the vaccine safety questions that will come before the committee. Second, the IOM wanted to ensure that no committee member had participated in the development or evaluation of a vaccine under study.Thus, the IOM has convened a distinguished panel of 13 members who are experts in a number of pertinent fields, including pediatrics, neurology, immunology, internal medicine, infectious diseases, genetics, epidemiology, biostatistics, risk perception and communication, decision analysis, public health, nursing, and ethics. The committee members were chosen because they are leading authorities in their respective fields, are well respected by their colleagues, and have no conflicts of interest. This committee brought a fresh perspective to these critically important issues and approached its charge with impartiality and scientific rigor.As with all reports from the IOM, the committees work was reviewed by an independent panel of experts. The purpose of the review process is to enhance the clarity, cogency, and accuracy of the final report and to ensure that the authors and the IOM are creditably represented by the report published in their names. The report review process is overseen by the National Research Councils (NRC) Report Review Committee (RRC), comprising approximately 30 members of the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, and IOM. A select panel of reviewers with a diverse set of perspectives are asked to critique the report. Unlike the selection criteria for committee membership, many reviewers will have strong opinions and interests related to the report topic. The composition of the review panel is not disclosed to the committee until after the report is approved for release. While the committee must consider and evaluate all comments from reviewers, it is not obligated to change its report in response to the reviewers comments. The committee must, however, justify its responses to the reviewers comments to the satisfaction of the RRCs review monitor and the IOMs review coordinator. A report may not be released to the sponsors or the