Like people, pets need vaccines. And pet vaccinations, like those for humans, may sometimes require a booster to keep them effective. The best way to stay on schedule with vaccinations for your dog or cat is to follow the recommendations of a veterinarian you trust.Chances are your vet's suggestions will break down into two categories: core pet vaccines and non-core vaccines. Core pet vaccinations are those recommended for every pet, while non-core vaccines may be advised based on your pet's lifestyle. For example, your vet may suggest certain non-core vaccinations if your cat or dog is outdoors only or boarded often.Many vaccines can be given to as young as 6 weeks old, so talk to your vet about setting up the best vaccination schedule for your or dog, kitten or puppy.Initial Puppy Vaccination (at or under 16 weeks) Can be administered in one dose, as early as 3 months of age. States regulate the age at which it is first administered. Core dog vaccine. Rabies is 100% fatal to dogs, with no treatment available. Prevention is key. Can be administered as one dose, as early as 3 months of age. States regulate the age at which it is first administered. A second vaccination is recommended after 1 year, then boosters every 3 years. At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing their initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Caused by an airborne virus, distemper is a severe disease that, among other problems, may cause permanent brain damage. At least 3 doses, given between 6 and 16 weeks of age Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Canine "parvo" is contagious, and can cause severe vomiting and bloody diarrhea. Parvo is usually fatal if untreated. At least 3 doses, between 6 and 16 weeks of age Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Spread via infected urine and feces; canine hepatitis can lead to severe liver damage, and death. At least 3 doses, between 6 and 16 weeks of age Puppies need a booster 1 year after completing the initial series, then all dogs need a booster every 3 years or more often. Core dog vaccine. Spread via Spread via coughs and sneezes. Administered at 6-8 weeks of age, then every 3-4 weeks until 12-14 weeks old A booster may be necessary after 1 year, depending on manufacturer recommendations; revaccination every 3 years is considered protective. Non-core dog vaccine. Parainfluenza infection (not the same as canine influenza) results in cough, fever. It may be associated with Bordetella infection. Depends on the vaccine type; 2 doses are usually needed for protection. 1 dose of the intranasal or oral product, or 2 doses of the injected product Annual or 6-month boosters may be recommended for dogs in high-risk environments. Non-core dog vaccine. Not usually a serious condition, although it can be dangerous in young puppies. It is usually seen after activities like boarding or showing. 1 dose, administered as early as 9 weeks, with a second dose 2-4 weeks later May be needed annually, prior to the start of tick season Non-core dog vaccine. Generally recommended only for dogs with a high risk for exposure to Lyme disease-carrying ticks. At least once yearly for dogs in high-risk areas Non-core dog vaccine. Vaccination is generally restricted to established risk areas. Exposure to rodents and standing water can lead to a leptospirosis infection. First dose as early as 6-8 weeks; second dose 2-4 weeks later