Firstly, these articles will be of great interest to you: Myths of Modern Medicine: The Increase in the Human Life Span - due to Political Social Reforms. This article explains how the great increase in human life span in the developed world (during the 19th and 20th centuries) was due to political social reforms like better sanitation systems and improved hygiene and nutrition. Myths of Modern Medicine: The Decline of the Infectious Diseases largely occurred before commercial vaccines, immunisations and drugs were developed for them. This page contains numerous graphs and diagrams that illustrate the statistics and trends. Article: A collection of comments by doctors on the myths and dangers of vaccination-immunization. The decline of infectious disease was due to ...? For diagrams that illustrate the decline of infant mortality and of the major infectious diseases see the article: Truth About the Decline of the Infectious Diseases Dr. Gerhard Buchwald, MD, 1989, Director of the Park-Sanatorium of Bad-Steben, West Germany, witness in more than 150 court trials about vaccination damages: "Vaccines have never had the proclaimed preventive effect on infections. The regression of infectious diseases started over 200 years ago, which means long before the introduction of vaccination, and it was due to the improved social conditions of the population: nutrition and hygiene. Contrarily to general belief, the vaccinations have had a negative influence on the decrease of the infective maladies and mortality. Statistics started off at a period when the infectious diseases were already on the downgrade. Careful studies over a period of many years have revealed that each introduction of a mass vaccination has obtained only one result: the immediate recrudescence of the malady that the vaccine should have prevented, but which it has solicited instead. The temporary but immediate isolation of infected patients has each time proved sufficient to prevent an epidemic. After every flare-up of an infection due to vaccination, the maladies have resumed the downward course which existed already before the vaccination. In general and over a period of many years, every vaccination has caused more casualties than the infection it was supposed to prevent. This happened for instance with the smallpox vaccination in Germany and many other countries.. ..Vaccines don't protect, but do harm. A scientific proof of their usefulness has never existed, whereas the severe, sometimes fatal damages they cause are a proven fact."(source: a talk given at the "The International Congress Of Doctors Against Vivisection" originally printed in CIVIS International Foundation Report Nr. 8", WINTER 1989 - 1990, Massagno - Switzerland, CIVIS.) The following quotes are taken from the book, "1000 Doctors (& many more) Against Medical Fraud - Vivisection", (Ed. Hans Ruesch), CIVIS, Switzerland, 1989. The page numbers are shown in brackets. The book is available for free download in PDF format. "There has never been a single vaccine in this country that has ever been submitted to a controlled scientific study. They never took a group of 100 people who were candidates for a vaccine, gave 50 of them a vaccine and left the other 50 alone, and measured the outcome. And since that has never been done, that means that if you want to be kind, you will call vaccines an unproven remedy. If you want to be accurate, you'll call the people who give vaccines quacks." Prof. Robert Mendelsohn, M.D., 1986, Head of the Liscensing Board for the State of Illinois, paediatrician & gynaecologist for 30 years, medical columnist & best-selling author, recipient of numerous awards for excellence in medicine. (p.50) "The public is surely entitled to convincing proof, beyond any reasonable doubt, that artificial immunisation is in fact a safe and effective procedure, in no way injurious to health, and that the threat of the corresponding natural diseases remain sufficiently clear and urgent to warrant mass inoculation of everyone, even against their will if necessary. Unfortunately, such proof has never been given" Richard Moskowitz, M.D. 1983. (p.47) "It is pathetic and ludicrous to say we vanquished smallpox with vaccines when only 10% of the population were ever vaccinated." Dr. Glen Dettman, AMM, BA, PhD, & Archie Kalokerinos, MD, 1986. (p. 36) In the late 1960's and 1970s, Dr. Kalokerinos and Dr. Dettman discovered that some 500 out of every 1,000 Aboriginal children were dying in the Northern Territories. The cause was a type of toxic shock reaction, complicated by vitamin C deficiency, often brought on by immunisation. In a two-year period without vaccination and with improved nutrition not one child died. (p.43). "The most phenomenal accomplishments in tuberculosis eradication have been achieved where little or no B.C.G. has been used, including in Iceland, Hawaii and the Netherlands." From an article signed by 17 doctors in the British Medical Journal, June 6 1959. (P.110). B.C.G. is a vaccine used against tuberculosis. Vaccination leads to Cancer, Leukaemia, Brain Damage and many other chronic diseases? "Immunisation programs against the flu, measles, mumps, polio, etc., actually may be seeding humans with RNA to form pro-viruses...which under proper conditions become activated and cause a variety of diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, lupus erythematoses, Parkinson's disease, and cancer. Spare me this 'medical miracle'." Dr. Robert Simpson, of Rutgers University, 1987. (p.42) "The vaccination modifies the terrain of the vaccinated, driving it towards the alkaline and oxidised terrain--the terrain of cancer. The fact can no longer be denied." The French medical Journal Revue de Pathologie Generale at de Physiologie Clinique, 1958 (p.111). "It is necessary only to read on the dials of a physical measuring apparatus the ratings of the 3 characteristics of the blood. The pH, the rH2 and the electric resistance. The findings are that all vaccination has the effect of directing the three values of the blood into or toward the zone characteristics of cancer and leukemia...Vaccines do predispose to cancer and leukemia." Prof.L.C.Vincent, founder of Bioelectronics. "Vaccination also causes leukaemia to break out." Dr. B. Duperrat, 1954, of the Saint-Louis Hospital in Paris, in the French medical journal Presse Medicale , March 12 1955. (P.114) "Since routine vaccines introduce live viruses and other highly antigenic material into the blood of virtually every living person, it is difficult to escape the conclusion that a significant harvest of auto-immune diseases will automatically result. It is dangerous and misleading and the exact opposite of the truth to claim that a vaccine makes us "immune" or protects us against an acute disease. In fact, it only drives the disease deeper into the interior and causes us to harbour it chronically with the result that our responses to it become progressively weaker and show less and less tendency to heal and resolve themselves spontaneously. . . Far from producing a genuine immunity the vaccines may act by actually interfering with or suppressing the immune system as a whole..." Richard Moskowitz, M.D. 1983 (p.67-68) "There is no doubt in my mind that in the UK alone some hundreds if not thousands, of well infants have suffered irreparable brain damage needlessly, and that their lives and those of their parents have been wrecked in consequence." Prof. Gordon Stewart, 1987, Professor of Public Health at the University of Glasgow, 1980, commenting on the brain damaging effects of whooping cough vaccine. (p.40) "Vaccines are made from: mucus of infected children (whooping cough), excrement from typhoid victims (typhoid), fermented chick embryos, and until recently, vaccines for polio were got from diseased kidneys of monkeys, and cause: leukemia, encephalitis, Multiple Sclerosis, and "Now I believe the smallpox vaccine theory is the explanation to the explosion of AIDS." advisor to the World Health Organisation, as reported in The London Times , 11.05.1987 (p.39). The advisors name was not disclosed in the Times article "Millions of people have been vaccinated with the polio vaccine, which contains the cancer-forming SV-40 virus originally found in monkeys. It is possible that it will take 20 years or still longer before the possible damaging effects of this virus come to light" Professor J. Clausen, 1973, of the Institute of Preventive Medicine at the University of Odense. Consider the upsurge of diseases such as AIDS, CFS, increases in leukemia etc., in light of this statement. (p.94) "Vaccination is not necessary, not useful, does not protect. There are twice as many casualties from vaccination as from AIDS" Dr. med. Gerhard Buchwald, 1988, West Germany, specialist of internal diseases and participant in about 150 trials of vaccination victims (p.35). "The prerequisite for today's medical policy is naturally the currently dominant system of medicine. The sick are the source of income, therefore it is necessary for sick people to be there, yes, if it proves advantageous if one makes the people artificially sick. . . Hundreds and thousands of perjuries have been committed via scientifically false reports. I say this, because I can prove it. By means of these the high standing of the doctors is forced on the public. Damage thus comes about as a result of vaccination, and is constantly proven. But it is portrayed in a very toned down form by official sources. Since 1930 many doctors have declared themselves opposed to vaccination. But the vaccination law continues to prevail. In many German States there is compulsory vaccination, although even the supporters of vaccination were originally against compulsion. In 1929 it so happened that a father abducted his own child three times so as to save it from the persecution of those who wanted to use force in order to vaccinate the child. For the fourth time the officials succeeded in taking the child for vaccination, they dragged it out of the car. After the vaccination encephalitis (inflammation of the brain) set in, and within eight days the child was dead! In this way vaccination has at times become a legally sanctioned judicial murder, committed by custodians of the law. Vaccination can, as has been proven, cause encephalitis." Dr. med. Steintel, 1932, Berlin, writing in an article "International Medical Policy". (p.153). "Immunisation with an attenuated virus cannot prevent distemper. The author has treated many dogs which have developed distemper despite two or three injections of the preventative agent... He is of the opinion that fits, chorea, hysteria, etc., in dogs have become more frequent since the use of distemper vaccine. Successful prevention will never be achieved by inoculation." Dr. J.E.R. McDonagh, 1987, Fellow Royal College of Surgeons, bacteriologist. (p.39). The following quotes are taken from the video-film "The Hand that Rocks the Cradle: A Documentary about Cotdeath" by the Health Care Reform Group, NSW, 1992. They changed name to become the Campaign Against Fraudulent Medical Research. Vaccination and an upsurge of auto-immune system diseases? "... At the beginning of this century these infectious diseases were really a very serious part of child health, that's undoubted. Now at this end of the century we are really facing an epidemic of diseases such as autoimmune diseases, diseases such as eczema, asthma, and allergies in children, milk intolerance, of course AIDS is the most dramatic case in adults with the immune system breaking down. I think we have to start to ask the question "Why is our immune system breaking down? Why are we seeing so many immune type illnesses? And it is very hard to answer that question, but certainly this is the challenge at this end of the century; the infectious diseases that we worried about at the beginning of this century, largely disappeared before we vaccinated and it is now a moot question whether the vaccination has anything to do with the upsurge in illnesses that are to do with the immune system malfunctioning." Dr. David Ritchie, 1992, Physician, New Zealand. "I don't know that the safety of vaccines has ever really been proven. We don't know the long-term effects of vaccines. It will take several generations before we see some genetic alterations that are going to occur quite obviously." Dr. Glen Dettman 1992, Australia. "We are always told that the illness itself is much worse than the side-effects from the vaccine. It is difficult to be sure about this. We have in New Zealand and in Australia, a certain under-reporting of the side-effects of vaccines. This arises for several reasons. One is that when the mother becomes concerned about her child being unwell the doctor often doesn't associate it with the vaccination. Even when this is suggested most doctors at the moment will just simply say "That is most unlikely to be true!" and he will dismiss it out of hand." Dr. David Ritchie, 1992, Physician, New Zealand. "I do believe that there is a problem in reporting the effects of vaccination on children. . . . And one of the reasons that I believe there is, is that there is a great, great pressure put upon the medical hierarchy, by the drug companies to suppress an enormous amount of important information." Dr. Evan Lallemand, osteopath, Australia, specialises in vaccine damage rehabilitation, 1992. "Of all the cases that I have spoken to, which is at least fifty, none of these children have been reported. My child was never reported with her reaction." Kerri Hamblin, Co-founder of the Immunisation Investigation Group (IIG), Australia, 1992. For more information on how and why vaccine-damage statistics are not collected by governments or medical institutions see Vaccination - adverse side-effects cover-up? Immunisation does not activate the peripheral immune system? "... the question of what is immunisation is an interesting one. Immunisation is a way of stimulating the body to produce antibodies against certain illnesses; in a different way from what one would normally have, what would normally have happened - if the child had got the disease normally. Measles is a good example here. If you get measles, the first signs are a runny nose, you get inflammation of all the membranes around the mouth and the nose of course, we call this the peripheral immune system. And that part of the immune system is stimulated. The body then goes on to produce antibodies to the measles virus and that leaves a life-long immunity. Now by vaccinating against measles, we actually in a sense, trick the body - the body doesn't have this switching on of the peripheral immune system, that's not involved, we inject straight into the subcutaneous tissue with the bloodstream, and so the body produces antibodies, but hasn't gone through the normal immune response that the body would normally have done for natural measles. It then becomes the question, does this give you life-long immunity? And we know now that it doesn't. In a New Zealand study they found that something like 15% of all 16 year olds who had been vaccinated at birth have lost their antibodies to measles. The World Health Organisation has become particularly interested in this issue because it is now feared that when these mothers, for instance, who no longer have any antibodies, have children, they can't pass across any natural immunity to measles and that would then leave then a population of babies under a year of age vulnerable to measles. And we know from experience that measles in a younger age-group is much more devastating than is measles at a slightly later age-group of over a year for instance." Dr. David Ritchie, 1992, Physician, New Zealand. A contract for your doctor to sign before vaccination: 'If your doctor suggests immunisation, then it should be your right to either accept or refuse. Should you accept, then ensure that your doctor fully acquaints you with all of the dangers. . . . Ask him to sign a form that will guarantee the effectiveness of the immunisation and an agreement that in the event of any damage he/she will compensate you up to one million dollars. After all, if it's as effective and harmless as the high priests of medicine proclaim, he will have absolutely no hesitation in conceding with your wishes!' Drs Archie Kalokerinos and Glen Dettman, in the book Vaccines: Vital or Vulnerable? (PS - writing in the New England Journal of Medicine, authors B. Frank Polk, M.D., Msc; Julie A. White, R.N.; Paola C. DeGirolami, M.D.; and John F. Modin, M.D., wrote that they 'Fully support the evidence presented by A. Kalokerinos and G. Dettman in Vaccines: Vital or Vulnerable' (September 4 1980). A Statement by the Physician I, (Physician's name).............................., do hereby state I have advised the parent(s) of (child's name) ...................... that in my professional opinion the child should be given (vaccine drug or other) ................................................ (Manufacturer's name) ................................................. (Serial number)..................(Batch number)................... I have this day (Day) ........... (Month) .......... (Year) ........... administered this medication after advising the parents that the child is at little or no risk from the treatment. I hereby do agree that should the child at any time suffer or develop any permanent condition deleterious or injurious to their health as a result of this treatment then I will pay any and all costs relating to the care and treatment of this child for the rest of its natural life. I further agree that if my earnings are insufficient to meet those costs I will sell my home, my business and all my material possessions to put the proceeds towards meeting those costs. .......................... Signature of Witness: Parent or Other .......................... Name position of witness The International Medical Council on Vaccination - is an association of medical doctors, registered nurses and other qualified medical professionals whose purpose is to COUNTER the messages asserted by pharmaceutical companies, the government and medical agencies that vaccines are safe, effective and harmless. Our conclusions have been reached individually by each member of the Council, after thousands of hours of personal research, study and observation. What Doctors Don't Tell You - http://www.wddty.co.uk/ Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine: Group of doctors, physicians and health practitioners promoting good health through real science. http://www.pcrm.org Campaign Against Fraudulent Medical Research (CAFMR): information that the pharmaceutical-chemical industry and their mass media do not want us to know. http://www.pnc.com.au/~cafmr