It was not hard read this book in one sitting as it soon became clear that it is one of the most important pieces of evidence of CDC malfeasance that we have seen yet. However it still seems that an agency that has been accused by one of its own top scientists, of wrongdoing and fraud against our CHILDREN is not enough for the American people to stand up and be outraged. Why is that? Whatever your stance on vaccines, the only people who DON'T want an investigation into this are the hardline pro-vaccine movement. Everyone else (reasonable parents, questioning parents, doctors, pro-science minded people and vaccine injured) should WELCOME further investigation? I mean, why not? Safety should be first. It is nave to think that an industry which has already been embroiled in CRIMINAL charges in the US and worldwide, would be so squeaky clean when it comes to vaccines.Barry does a great job of analyzing the situation as a reasonable person. Even the foreword by RFK Jr is more damning in its depiction of the malfeasance at the CDC. Kennedy produces a scathing report of the state of this crumbling agency and the reasons why the American people should wake up. He singles out the media as being complicit in this crime against our children and the health of future generations.After reading this book, it begs the question, why do PRO vaccine hardliners ignore this blatant corruption unless they are part of the pharma paid propaganda machine? If they're not getting paid then they're being foolish (I mean, why else would you spend countless hours online to defend this multi billion dollar industry?). What is the argument AGAINST a congressional hearing? If the CDC has nothing to hide then let's subpoena them. I saw that Ms Reiss (comments below) thinks that Rep. Posey should release the documents if they are so conclusively damning but she is nave herself or she is just so stuck on the flawed seat belt analogy that she can't see it (clicking into a seat belt cannot cause brain injury). Publishing whistleblower documents of a government agency is not an official role of his. It must be done via a congressional hearing and go through the correct channels. If people like Ms. Reiss took a step back and remember that we were once convinced by the SCIENCE, doctors and the government that smoking was GOOD for us, she would see that this is no different. The ONLY study we will accept, as reasonable people, is the study of vaccinated Vs unvaccinated which we CAN do by obtaining access to the SEED data currently being held "under lock and key" by the CDC. This study is the only one that can truly examine the health of our children post vaccination and not rely on "studies" carried out under suspicious circumstances (Verstraeten Thimerosal study, 2004 MMR study, the Danish studies etc). All of this can go away if we have new and INDEPENDENT studies. It seems that Dr. Thompson himself wants the SEED data to be given to independent bodies to study. Why is this so difficult? Well it's so difficult because we are up against a multi Billion industry and much like the reason why the multi billion dollar National Children's Study was abandoned (and never even included vaccines) - they are afraid of what they may find (or have found). This is not going away. More and more kids are being harmed each day... drip drip... but soon the tsunami will arrive at the shore. And then it's too late. All. Over. The. (vaccinated). World. Barry's book will be a watershed moment, sadly another one, where the mainstream media turned a blind eye to what's proving to be the crime of the 21st century.