IVAC serves as a home to VIEW-hub, a new online, interactive vaccine information tool. VIEW-hub is a publicly accessible, interactive platform that enables users to visualize real-time information on vaccine use, product type, coverage levels, and impact assessments.Through VIEW-hub, users can instantly visualize data about vaccine introductions, product usage, dosing schedules, access, coverage, and more for a number of vaccines. Custom queries and maps, exportable data and graphics, and a map gallery are just some of the interactive features users can access. VIEW-hub extends the functionality and content of the former Vaccine Information Management System (VIMS), allowing users to track progress and strategize ways to accelerate and optimize vaccine implementation.Access the new VIEW-hub platform at VIEW-hub.org.What does VIEW-hub do?How does VIEW-hub do this?VIEW-hub compiles data from a variety of official and unofficial vetted partner sources in a central platform where data visualization and summaries can be easily generated and customized. Data are gathered systematically across official sources as needed to ensure validity.Vaccine introduction data are updated in real-time where possible. Other data, such as vaccine coverage, are updated annually. PCV impact study data are updated systematically, on a weekly or quarterly basis.What is the scope of VIEW-hub?What sources does VIEW-hub use?Vaccine introduction and use information is sourced from the Immunization Data Repository and other official WHO sources, UNICEF, Gavi, government ministry of health websites, and vetted media sources. PCV impact study information is sourced from Gavi, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, CDC, recurring literature searches, and communication with partners.Who should be contacted with questions or for more information?For any VIEW-hub related inquiries, please contact Kirthini Muralidharan atkmurali2@jhu.edu.This series of video tutorials will walk you through some of the most commonly used features of the VIEW-hub system.VIMS (Vaccine Information Management System) was a web-based tool launched in 2007 to provide the international community with data on the state of vaccine access in 194 countries. VIMS has transitioned to VIEW-hub, a new data visualization platform focused on vaccine introduction and impact. Previous VIMS reports for 2012-2015 are available here.