You gotta hand it to Jason Chaffetz. Being a congressman is hard work, but not many things demonstrate that like the town hall full of whiny cry-babies he had to deal with on Thursday night. Among the things the audience gave him crap for: investigating the government cover-up of vaccine dangers.But it was the entire hour-and-a-half town hall that was difficult to watch, not just the audiences ignorance on vaccination harms. Chaffetz was shouted down throughout the entire event simply for stating his opinion on a number of issues when asked by the audience. They even shouted him down right after he told an emotional story about losing both parents to cancer. Thats how insufferable these people were.One so-called teacher asked how she is supposed to teach her students about safe spaces when the nation isnt a safe space. Lady, you shouldnt teach students about safe spacesprecisely becausethis nation is not a safe space. Your job is not to give students an earload of make-believe, your job is toteachthem.I was already itching to stop playing the YouTube when at the end, some overweight, neurodiverse autistwho clearly couldnt control his own hand-movements asked a question about the presidents BS opinion regarding vaccines. As soon as Chaffetz discussed how concerns were brought to his office, the audience got triggered once again: Noooooooooooooo!!!! Science! Science! Science!!!!Although there is virtually nothing else that the audience full of dirty hippies, feminist harpies and neurodiverse nitwits said in response that is audible, one of those snowflakes alleged the following was asked:Why yes, as a matter of fact his name is William Thompson, and he still works as a senior scientist for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What better way to shut these infantilized protesters down than to subpoena him and have him tell the truth under oath? Okay maybe not shut down, just expose as being even thickerthan they come across.After all, they may never stop crying over this