Patients Eligible for Vaccines Supplied by the IIP All children 0 through 18 years of age who are eligible for the federal Vaccines for Children (VFC) program, the Idaho Immunization Assessment, and federal funds for designated targeted populations may receive vaccines supplied by the IIP. Patient eligibility must be screened and documented for every child at each immunization visit. State-Supplied Eligibility All children 0 through 18 years of age whose custodial parent or legal guardian resides in Idaho, and who are not eligible for the federal Vaccines for Children program, are eligible for state-supplied vaccines funded through the Idaho Immunization Assessment. VFC Eligibility All providers must screen every child at each immunization visit for VFC eligibility. VFC eligibility does not have to be verified by the provider, but must be documented. All children 0 through 18 years of age who meet one of the following criteria are considered VFC eligible: a. Is a Native American or Alaska Native, b. Is enrolled in Medicaid, c. Has no health insurance, or d. Is underinsured. Underinsured children have private health insurance but the coverage does not include vaccines; the coverage includes only selected vaccines (the child is VFC eligible for non-covered vaccines); or, children whose insurance caps vaccine coverage at a certain amount (once the coverage amount is reached, these children are categorized as underinsured). Underinsured children are eligible to receive VFC vaccine only through a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC), Rural Health Clinic (RHC) or deputized Public Health Department. Private providers must inform parents of underinsured children that free vaccine may be available at a FQHC, RHC, or Public Health Department. Other Eligibility Other populations deemed eligible by the Idaho Department of Health and Welfares Immunization Program based on available funding and resources. Patient eligibility status information must be retained and easy to retrieve in the patients record for three (3) years.