The ScienceBasedMedicine.org Reference Pages are reviews of topics relevant to science and medicine. Each consists of a concise overview of the topic from a scientific perspective, an index of the most relevant posts here on SBM, links to some external resources we recommend, and our summaries of the most interesting and important research. These pages are a work in progress, and we are actively developing them over the summer and fall of 2013, starting with acupuncture, chiropractic, homeopathy, and vaccines & autism.Vaccines are generally considered to be the most successful public health intervention ever devised. And yet there have been opponents of vaccines ever since there have been vaccines. So-called antivaccinationists have claimed over the years that vaccines do not work, despite the overwhelming evidence that they do. They often spread misinformation about vaccine, such as the notion that vaccines weaken the immune system, when in fact they work by strengthening the immune response against the target infection.In recent years the antivaccine movement has focused on the claim that vaccines are linked to neurological injury, and specifically to the neurological disorder autism, now referred to as autism spectrum disorder (ASD). However the scientific evidence overwhelmingly shows no correlation between vaccines in general, the MMR vaccine specifically, or thimerosal (a mercury-based preservative) in vaccines with ASD or other neurodevelopmental disorders.The primary argument made for an association between thimerosal and ASD is that the rate of diagnosis of ASD has been steadily increasing since the early 1990s. At that time also the routine vaccine schedule was increasing, resulting in an increasing total dose of thimerosal. The antivaccinationists then assume causation from correlation to blame rising ASD rates on thimerosal.However, by 2002 thimerosal was completely removed from the routine vaccine schedule, and now remains only in some flu vaccines. The total dose of thimerosal exposure is far below 1990 levels, before ASD diagnoses began to rise. Antivaccinationists predicted that ASD rates would fall dramatically in the years following the removal of thimerosal from most vaccines but rates have continued to rise without even the slightest change in the rate of increase. This is a powerful refutation of the thimerosal-autism hypothesis, and has been replicated in other countries.Further, the best epidemiological evidence suggests that the rise in the diagnosis rate of ASD is an artifact of broadening the definition of autism, diagnostic substitution, and increased surveillance. Therefore there isnt really an autism epidemic just a change in the definition and efforts to make the diagnosis.Undaunted, the antivaccinationists have changed their claims to blame any number of toxins in vaccines. However, their claims have no scientific validity.Wakefield AJ, et al. Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in children. The Lancet, Volume 351, Issue 9103, Pages 637 641, 28 February 1998 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(97)11096-0Summary: This is the original Lancet article by Andrew Wakefield that spawned the MMR-autism scare. The study is a small analysis of 12 subjects that Wakefield claims had evidence of the measles virus in their GI tract and that this correlated with the MMR vaccine and the onset of autism. This study has subsequently been discredited on a number of levels. It turns out that Wakefield had undisclosed conflicts of interest namely a patent application for a replacement MMR vaccine. He was also a consultant for an attorney looking to sue the manufacturers of the MMR vaccine, and in fact many of the subjects of this study were childen of clients of this attorney. The techniques used to identify measles virus in the GI tracts were later disputed and failed to replicate. Review of records also disputes the timing of the onset of symptoms and the MMR vaccine. The scandals surrounding this study eventually led to 10 of the original 12 co-authors to retract their support for the paper. (For a more detailed history and analysis see Brian Deers investigation.)Afzal M A, et al. Absence of measles-virus genome in inflammatory bowel disease. The Lancet 1998; 351: 646-7.Summary: The Lancet published a research letter by Afzal et al., in response to Wakefield et al.s earlier papers published in the Journal of Medical Virology (39:345-53, 1993 and 51:90-100, 1997) describing the presence of measles virus in Crohns and ulcerative colitis tissues. They concluded that using the best available polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) technology, they were unable to find measles virus genome in gut mucosal biopsies from patients with Crohns disease or ulcerative colitis.Summary: Commentary that highlights vaccines are given to millions of healthy people, usually infants, and that extremely high standards for vaccine safety are demanded. Its important that the report by Wakefield of several children whose chronic bowel and behavioral abnormalities were linked by their parents and physicians to measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccination are examined, critically and with an open mind. The commentary also highlights that vaccine-safety concerns such as that reported by Wakefield and colleagues; may snowball into societal tragedies when the media and the public confuse association with causality and shun immunization. This painful history was shared by the UK (among others) over pertussis in the 1970s after another similar case- series was widely publicized,and it is likely to be repeated all too easily over MMR. This would be tragic because passion would then conquer reason and the facts again in the UK.Summary: Research letter published in The Lancet on 28th March 1998, written by Eric Fombonne that suggests no particular association between Crohns disease and autism among children immunised with MMR.Summary: Correspondence published in The Lancet, written by MR Kiln. Highlights that Wakefield and colleagues report did not show an established link between MMR vaccine and autism, and that health professionals and parents should have even more, not less, confidence in the safety of present MMR vaccine and the benefits of vaccination.Mrozek-Budzyn D; Kieltyka A; Majewska R Lack of Association Between Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccination and Autism in Children: A Case-Control Study. The Pediatric Infectious Disease Journal: 1 December 2009. doi: 10.1097/INF.0b013e3181c40a8aSummary: This is a retrospective case-control study conducted in Poland that found no correlation between autism and either the single measles vaccine or the trivalent MMR vaccine. In fact, there appeared to be a protective effect in that there was less autism in those who were vaccinated. This is likely either a random result or the result of an unknown confounder. However, this study does not reflect any increased risk of autism in those receiving either type of vaccine.Peltola H, Patja A, Leinikki P, et al. No evidence for measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine-associated inflammatory bowel disease or autism in a 14-year prospective study. Lancet, May 2 1998, 351(9112) p1327-8.Summary: This study showed that, with over a decades effort to detect all severe adverse events associated with MMR vaccine, no data could be found supporting the hypothesis that it would cause pervasive developmental disorder or inflammatory bowel disease.Taylor B, Miller E, Farrington CP, Petropoulos MC, Favot-Mayaud I, Li J, Waight PA. Autism and measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine: no epidemiological evidence for a causal association. Lancet. 1999;353:2026-9.Summary: This population-based study investigated whether there was an association between the incidence of autism and MMR immunization in the North-East Thames region. This study confirmed that there was an increase in the prevalence of autism but this increase was not related to the introduction of MMR or to vaccine coverage. This study did not identify any association between MMR vaccine and the age of diagnosis of autism. The results of this paper do not support a causal association between MMR and autism, either in its initiation or the onset of regression.Fombonne E. Are measles infections or measles immunizations linked to autism? Ask the Editor Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders (August 1999) Vol 29:No 4:1999Summary: Letter in the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders that examines whether measles infections or measles immunisations are linked to autism. The letter concludes that no evidence exists to causally link exposures to measles virus or vaccination and autism.Afzal A, et al. Further evidence of the absence of measles virus genome sequence in full thickness intestinal specimens from patients with Crohns disease. Journal of Medical Virology 2000; 62: 377-82.Patja A, et al. Serious adverse events after measles-mumps-rubella vaccination during a fourteen-year prospective follow-up. Pediatric Infectious Diseases Journal. 2000; 19(12):112734.Summary: This study concluded that causality between immunisation and a subsequent untoward event cannot be estimated solely on the basis of a temporal relation. Comprehensive analysis of the reported adverse reactions established that serious events causally related to MMR vaccine are rare and greatly outweighed by the risks of natural MMR diseases.Medicines Control Agency/Department of Health (2001) Combined measles, mumps and rubella vaccines: Response of the Medicines Control Agency and the Department of Health to issues raised in papers published in Adverse Drug Reactions and Toxicological Reviews 2000 19(4).Summary: The Medicines Control Agency and Department of Health carried out a systematic review of the Wakefield & Montgomery paper and found serious errors in it, such as incorrect analysis of trial results, incorrect reporting of the length and detail of studies and a failure to identify and analyse all the evidence.Committee on Safety of Medicines (2001). Summary of the Committee on Safety of Medicines meeting held 10 January 2001.Summary: The Committee on Safety of Medicines reviewed the Wakefield & Montgomery paper and concluded: In those studies where MMR has been compared with the component vaccines there is no suggestion that MMR causes more adverse effects than measles vaccines alone.World Health Organization (2001). Statement on the use of MMR vaccine 24 January 2001Summary: The World Health Organization (WHO) released its view of the evidence regarding the safety of the MMR vaccine. It stated: WHO strongly endorses the use of MMR vaccine on the grounds of its convincing record of safety and efficacy. The combination vaccine is recommended rather than the monovalent presentation when available and the disease burden justifies its use. There has been no new scientific evidence that would suggest impaired safety of MMR. On the contrary, all results from vaccine trials published reaffirm the high safety of MMR vaccine.Kaye J, del Mare Melero-Montes M, Jick H. Mumps, measles and rubella vaccine and the incidence of autism recorded by general practitioners: A time trend analysis. British Medical Journal 2001 322:460-3.Summary: Used the GP Research Database to compare MMR vaccine coverage over time with reported rates of autism. Risk of autism increased fourfold in the UK between 1988 and 1999.Uptake of MMR more or less constant at ~ 95%The authors concluded that the data provided evidence that no correlation exists between the prevalence of MMR vaccination and the rapid increase in the rise of autism over time.De Wilde S, Carey IM, Richards N, et al. Do children who become autistic consult more often after MMR vaccination? Br J Gen Pract (England), Mar 2001, 51(464) p226-7.Summary: The Doctors Independent Network database was used to examine whether children subsequently diagnosed as autistic consulted more frequently than controls after MMR vaccination. No difference in consulting behaviour was seen in the six months post MMR. Any dramatic effect of MMR on behaviour seems unlikely.Dales L, Hammer SJ, Smith NJ Time trends in autism and in MMR immunization coverage in California. JAMA, Mar 7 2001, 285(9) p1183-5.Summary: Percentage of children immunized with MMR between 1980 and 1994 was compared with incidence of autism during same period. Although a dramatic increase in autism incidence was found, the percentage of children that received MMR was unchanged. Conclusion: No causal association exists between MMR vaccination and the risk of autism.Davis R L, et al. Measles-mumps-rubella and other measles-containing vaccines do not increase the risk for inflammatory bowel disease. Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 2001 155:354-9.Summary: Findings from the University of Washington in Seattle which showed that MMR, or other vaccines containing the measles virus, do not increase the risk of inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohns disease.Institute of Medicine Immunisation Safety Review Committee (2001). Report of measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and autism.Summary: The US Institute of Medicine Immunisation Safety Review Committee published a report which concluded: The evidence favours rejection of a causal relationship at the population level between MMR vaccine and autistic spectrum disorders (ASD). The chair of the committee warned of possible devastating disease outbreaks if parents refrained from having their children vaccinated due to autism fears.Halsey N A., et al. Measles-Mumps-Rubella Vaccine and Autistic Spectrum Disorder: Report From the New Challenges in Childhood Immunizations Conference Convened in Oak Brook, Illinois, June 12-13, 2000. Pediatrics 2001; 107: 84.Summary: The American Academy of Pediatrics hosted a multidisciplinary international workshop to review the evidence regarding a possible association between MMR vaccine, inflammatory bowel disease and autism spectrum disorders, specifically autism with regression. It decided a considerable body of evidence did not support a causal relationship between MMR vaccine and autism or inflammatory bowel disease. In addition, it found no data to suggest the separate administration of measles, mumps and rubella vaccines would offer any potential benefit over the MMR vaccine. In fact, it voiced its concern that such an approach would result in many under-immunised children.Farrington P., et al. MMR and autism: Further evidence against a causal association. Vaccine 2001; 19:3632-5.Summary: Re-examined previous research, published in The Lancet, which examined signs of autism in children shortly after they received the combined vaccine. Following criticism that the onset of autism may not necessarily be short, the new research looked at the data from the same 357 autistic children who had taken part in the first study but used an extended timescale. The results provided further evidence against a causal association between the MMR vaccine and autism.Elliman D, Bedford H, Miller E. MMR vaccine: Worries are not justified. Archives of Disease in Childhood 2001; 85:271-4.Summary: A review of evidence on MMR to date by Elliman and Bedford. It concluded that there is neither experience nor research evidence for giving the triple vaccine separately anywhere in the world. There is no case for introducing single vaccines and worries over MMR are unjustified.Frombonne E; Chakrabarti S No Evidence for A New Variant of Measles-Mumps-Rubella-Induced Autism. Pediatrics 2001; Oct 108;4(e58):991.Summary: Compares autistic children who have had MMR to those who have not. It failed to support an association between MMR and regressive autism and concluded that, when combined, current findings did not argue for changes in current immunisation programmes and recommendations.Spitzer W, Aitken K, et al. The natural history of autistic syndrome in British children exposed to MMR. Adverse Drug Reaction Toxicological Review 2001; 20 (3): 160-3.Summary: Paper reviews children whose parents are taking legal action against drug manufacturers. It stated that the first symptoms of autism appear over a year after the MMR vaccine and claimed prior research is invalid. However, it provided no evidence to link MMR to autism and the authors failed to produce any scientific references.Dales L, Hammer SJ, Smith NJ. Time trends in autism and in MMR immunization coverage in California. JAMA 2001; 285: 11831185.Farrington CP, Miller E, Taylor B. MMR and autism: further evidence against a causal association. Vaccine 2001; 19: 36323635.Smeeth L, Hall AJ, Fombonne E, Rodrigues LC, Huang X, et al. A case-control study of autism and mumps-measles-rubella vaccination using the general practice research database: design and methodology. BMC Public Health 2001; 1:2.Summary: The Medical Research Council (U.K.) published a review on autism, which stated that understanding and diagnosis of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) has improved and called for more research in this area. It also stated that in relation to MMR, current evidence does not support the alleged link of MMR and ASDs.Taylor B, et al. Measles, mumps and rubella vaccination and bowel problems or developmental regression in children with autism: a population study. BMJ 2002. 324:393-6.Summary: Report of the expert group established by the Scottish Executive in response to recommendations set out in the health and community care committees report of the inquiry into issues surrounding the alleged relationship between the combined measles, mumps and rubella vaccine and autism.A PDF of this report is available at: www.scotland.gov.uk/library5/health/rmmr.pdfBlack C, Kaye JA, Jick H. Relation of childhood gastrointestinal disorders to autism: nested case-control study using data from the UK General Practice Research Database. British Medical Journal 2002;325:419-21.Summary: This study, using the General Practice Research Database, looked at whether children with autism are more likely to have a history of gastrointestinal disorders than children without autism. All children born between 1 January 1988 and 31 December 1999 were reviewed. The study concluded there was no evidence that children with autism were more likely than children without autism to have had defined gastrointestinal disorders at any time before their diagnosis of autism.Madsen KM, et al. A population-based study of measles, mumps and rubella vaccination and autism. New England Journal of Medicine 2002; 347: 1477-82.Summary: A retrospective cohort study published in the New England Journal of Medicine reviewed over 500,000 children born in Denmark. The main objective of this study was to evaluate whether there was an association between MMR vaccine and autism. This paper concluded This study provides strong evidence against the hypothesis that MMR vaccination causes autism.Summary: A further study was published in the journal Pediatrics. The aim of this study was to assess whether there was an association between MMR vaccination and encephalitis, aseptic meningitis, and autism. This retrospective record linkage study in Finland looked at over 500,000 children aged between 1 and 7 years of age vaccinated during November 1982 and June 1986. This study did not identify any association between MMR vaccination and encephalitis, aseptic meningitis or autism.Thjodleifsson B., et al. Inflammation and inflammatory bowel disease. Effect of Pentavac and measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccination on the intestine. Gut 2002; 51:816-17.Summary: A paper investigating whether MMR vaccination was associated with the development of autistic enterocolitis in Iceland was published. Infants were reviewed before, and 2 and 4 weeks after immunisation with Pentavac for the presence of intestinal inflammation. This paper did not find any evidence of intestinal inflammation during the 4 weeks following MMR or Pentavac immunisation.Andrews N. et al. Short Report. Recall bias, MMR and autism. Archives of Diseases in Children 2002; 87:493-4.Summary: Examines the effect of prior knowledge of a suggested causal link between MMR and autism on the parents perception of a temporal association between immunisation and onset of symptoms (particularly regression). This paper highlights that there is a significant degree of recall bias in parents of autistic children with regressive features who were diagnosed after the publicity alleging a link between MMR and autism.Szatmari P. et al. The cause of autism spectrum disorders. British Medical Journal 2003;326: 173-4.Summary: The possible causes of autism spectrum disorders are reviewed in a recent paper by Prof P. Szatmari. This review highlights the importance of genetic factors but points out that environmental factors cannot be excluded. In this review he states that Despite recent publicity, there is good evidence that the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine is not an environmental risk fact for autism.Yeargin-Allsopp M. et al. Original contribution. Prevalence of autism in a US metropolitan area. Journal of American Medical Association 2003;289 (1): 49-55.Summary: Reported on the prevalence of autism in children aged between 3 to 10 years in 1996 in Atlanta. This paper concluded that the rate of autism in this age group was higher than the rate of autism in studies conducted in the US during the early 80s and 90s. The findings of this study were stated to be similar to more recent studies.Fombonne E. Editorial. The prevalence of autism. Journal of American Medical Association 2003;289 (1): 87-9.Summary: The above paper by Yeargin-Allsopp M. et al. was accompanied by an editorial by Dr E Fombonne.Ki M. et al. Risk analysis of aseptic meningitis after measles-mumps-rubella vaccination in Korean children by using a case-crossover design. American Journal of Epidemiology 2003;157(2): 158-65.Summary: A study examining the risk of developing aseptic meningitis following MMR vaccination in Korea was carried out. This case-crossover study was shown to be useful in confirming the risk of developing acute adverse events following vaccination. This study confirmed that there was no significant risk of developing aseptic meningitis following the Jeryl Lynn or Rubini strain of MMR. It also confirmed that the Urabe or Hoshino strain of MMR was associated with a risk increased in the third to sixth week following vaccination.Summary: This record-linkage study looked at whether MMR vaccine increased the risk of hospitalisation with invasive bacterial infections (such as bacterial meningitis and septicaemia, and pneumonia) in the three months following vaccination. Children aged between 12-23 months admitted to hospital in selected districts in the Thames region of southern England with a bacterial invasive disease between April 1995 and March 1995 were reviewed. This study excluded any children predisposed to developing bacterial infection such as those immunosuppressed. The results of this study showed that MMR did not increase the risk of developing bacterial infections within 90 days following vaccination. This study does not support the theory that MMR causes immunological overload in children.MMR vaccine how effective and how safe? The independent review from Consumers Association. Drug and Therapeutics Bulletin April 2003, 41 (4):25-30.Summary: This paper reviews the safety, efficacy and side effects of MMR vaccine. This paper concludes that:Wilson K., et al. July . Association of Autistic Spectrum Disorder and the Measles, Mumps and Rubella Vaccine. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med 2003;157: 628-34.Summary: This article reviewed the available literature on measles, mumps and rubella vaccine and autistic spectrum disorders (ASD). A total of 12 studies (from 5 countries) examining the hypotheses put forward by Dr Wakefield and colleagues were reviewed in detail. None of the studies examined provided evidence of an association between autistic spectrum disorders and MMR. The review did not find any evidence of an epidemic of ASD related to MMR, nor evidence of an association between a variant form of autism and the MMR vaccine. The authors state that Given the real risks of not vaccinating and that the risks and existence of variant ASD remain theoretical, current policies should continue to advocate the use of MMR vaccine.Taylor et al. Prevalence of autism and parentally reported triggers in a north east London population. Archives of Disease in Childhood 2003; 88:666-670.Summary: The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of autism and to look at whether parental perception regarding the onset or causes of autism had changed over that time. The results of this study showed a levelling in the prevalence of autism from 1992 to 1996, with a rate of 2.6 per 1000 live births. They also showed that the age at diagnosis had decreased over time.These two findings suggest that the rise previously found was not a real rise and was likely to be due to factors such as an increased recognition, greater acceptance of the diagnostic label by educationalists and families, and also better recording systems. This paper also showed that there was an increase in the number of parents attributing their childs autism to MMR since August 1997.DeStefano F, Thompson W. MMR Vaccine and Autism: An Update of the Scientific Evidence Expert Review of Vaccines 2004; 3(1):19-22.Summary: Update of scientific evidence in published studies have continued not to find an increased risk of autistic spectrum disorder associated with MMR. MMR vaccine also has not been found to be associated with a unique syndrome of developmental regression and gastrointestinal disorders. There is convincing evidence that MMR does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autistic spectrum disorder.Summary: Paper examines whether, in the UK, there is an increased risk of autism (AD) following exposures, in early life, to wild measles, live attenuated measles, alone or in combination as MMR, and the alteration of the mumps strain within MMR.The paper concludes no increased risk of autism (AD) following exposures to wild measles and vaccinations with monovalent measles, and Urabe or JerylLynn variants of MMR, were detected.Smeeth, et al. MMR vaccination and pervasive developmental disorders: a case-control study. The Lancet,. 2004; 364:963-969.Summary: Case-control study of 1294 cases and 4469 age and sex matched controls to determine if there is an association between MMR vaccination and development of PDD. Conclusion: MMR not associated with increased risk of PDD.Barbaresi, et al. The Incidence of Autism in Olmsted County, Minnesota, 1976-1997. Archives of Pediatric and Adolescents Medicine. 2005; 159:37-44.Summary: Recent studies suggest that the number of children diagnosed with autism has increased. The cause of this increase, as yet is unknown, but better recognition and changes in classification of autistic spectrum disorders and related conditions are thought to contribute to this increase. One suggestion has been that MMR immunisation has caused this increase. There is no scientific evidence to support this hypothesis.Miller E, Andrews N, Grant A, Stowe J, Taylor B. No evidence of an association between MMR vaccine and gait disturbance Archives of Disease in Childhood 2005;90:292-296Summary: This study provides no evidence for a causal association between MMR and gait disturbance.Honda H, Shimizu Y, Rutter M. 2005. No effect of MMR withdrawal on the incidence of autism: a total population study. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry 46(6):57279.Summary: Population-based study of 300,000 in Yokohama, Japan looking at ASD diagnoses from 1988-1996. From 1988 to 1993 MMR vaccination rates declined, and there were no MMR vaccinations after 1993. Meanwhile, during the same period of time ASD diagnoses steadily increased. Therefore there was a significant lack of correlation between exposure to the MMR vaccine and the subsequent diagnosis of ASD.Fombonne E, Zakarian R, Bennett A, Meng L, McLean-Heywood D. Pervasive developmental disorders in Montreal, Quebec, Canada: prevalence and links with immunizations. Pediatrics 2006; 118: e139150.Richler J, Luyster R, Risi S, Hsu WL, Dawson G, et al. Is there a regressive phenotype of Autism Spectrum Disorder associated with the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine? A CPEA Study. J Autism Dev Disord 2006; 36: 299316.Afzal MA, Ozoemena LC, OHare A, Kidger KA, Bentley ML, et al. Absence of detectable measles virus genome sequence in blood of autistic children who have had their MMR vaccination during the routine childhood immunization schedule of UK. J Med Virol 2006;78: 623630.DSouza Y, Fombonne E, Ward BJ. No evidence of persisting measles virus in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from children with autism spectrum disorder. Pediatrics 2006;118: 16641675.Uchiyama T, Kurosawa M, Inaba Y. MMR-vaccine and regression in autism spectrum disorders: negative results presented from Japan. J Autism Dev Disord 2007;37: 210217.Baird G, Pickles A, Simonoff E, Charman T, Sullivan P, et al. Measles vaccination and antibody response in autism spectrum disorders. Arch. Dis. Child. 2008; 93:832-837.Summary: A Case-control study community based study to test the hypothesis that measles vaccination wasinvolved in the pathogenesis of ASD as evidenced by signs ofa persistent measles infection or abnormally persistent immuneresponse shown by circulating measles virus or raised antibodytitres in MMR vaccinated children with ASD compared with controls .No difference was found betweencases and controls for measles antibody response. There wasno dose response relationship between autism symptoms and antibodylevels. Measles virus nucleic acid was amplified by RT-PCR inPMBC from one case with autism and two typically developingchildren. There was no evidence of a differential response tomeasles virus or the measles component of the MMR in childrenwith ASD, with or without regression, and controls who had eitherone or two doses of MMR. Only one child from the control grouphad clinical symptoms of a possible enterocolitis.Hornig M, Briese T, Buie T, Bauman ML, Lauwers G, et al. (2008) Lack of Association between Measles Virus Vaccine and Autism with Enteropathy: A Case-Control Study. PLoS ONE 3(9): e3140. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0003140Summary: This study replicated the original Lancet article by Andrew Wakefield that started the scare that the MMR vaccine might be associated with autism. The researchers found that there was no correlation between measles virus being found in the gut and autism, and also found no correlation between the timing of the MMR vaccine and the onset of autism or GI symptoms. (Further discussion here and here.)Andrews N, et al., Thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders: a retrospective cohort study in the United Kingdom does not support a causal association. Pediatrics, 2004;114:584-591.Summary: From the methods of this study: A retrospective cohort study was performed using 109,863 children who were born from 1988 to 1997 and were registered in general practices in the United Kingdom that contributed to a research database. And the results: Only in 1 analysis for tics was there some evidence of a higher risk with increasing doses. Statistically significant negative associations with increasing doses at 4 months were found for general developmental disorders, unspecified developmental delay, and attention-deficit disorder. For the other disorders, there was no evidence of an association with thimerosal exposure.In other words the researchers found a random scattering of mild positive and negative correlations between thimerosal exposure and a few neurodevelopment outcomes, with most outcomes showing no correlation. This is consistent with other studies and is essentially what we expect if thimerosal does not cause neurodevelopmental disorders. Some in the anti-vaccine camp have cherry-picked the weak association with tics, but there is no more reason to think that correlation is anything other than random noise than there is to believe that thimerosal protects against ADHD based upon this data.Fombonne E., et al., Pervasive Developmental Disorders in Montreal, Quebec, Canada: Prevalence and Links with Immunizations. Pediatrics. 2006;118:139-150.Summary: This is a population based study involving 27,749 children born from 1987 to 1998. The researchers calculated the total exposure to thimerosal, which dropped to zero after 1996 as thimerosal was removed from childhood vaccines in Canada at that time. They found:Heron J, Golding J, and ALSPAC Study Team. Thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders: a prospective cohort study in the United Kingdom does not support a causal association. Pediatrics. 2004;114:577-583.Summary: This study is similar to the Andrews study, except this was prospective rather than retrospective. They followed > 14,000 children with neurological assessments from 6 to 91 months of age. As with the Andrews study they found a random scattering of mild correlations, mostly negative (meaning that thimerosal exposure was associated with a decreased risk of neurological signs or disorders) and only one positive correlation with poor pro-social behavior. These results are consistent with chance, i.e. no cause and effect between thimerosal and neurodevelopmental disorders.The researchers conclude: We could find no convincing evidence that early exposure