When you bring that soft, sweet-smelling little ball of a puppy into your home you know right away that she is depending on you for, well, everything. Its up to you to give her all the care she needs every day. It can be a little intimidatingshe needs nutritious food, plenty of attention, gentle training, safe toys, socialization, a comfortable home, and proper veterinary care. And that includes puppy vaccinations throughout her first year.Going to the vet repeatedly over several months for vaccinations, and then for boosters or titers throughout your dogs life, may seem like an inconvenience, but the diseases that vaccinations will shield our pets from are dangerous, potentially deadly, and, thankfully, largely preventable. We read about so many different vaccinations, for so many different illnesses, that it can sometimes be confusing to know which vaccinations puppies need and which ones are important but optional. Here is an overview of the diseases that vaccinations will help your pet to avoid.Of course, your veterinarian should weigh in and can always provide more information and guidance if needed on necessary and optional vaccinations.The first thing to know is that there is not just one puppy vaccination schedule for all dogs. Factors such as which part of the country you live in and your dogs individual risk factors will come into play. Some dogs do not need every vaccine. This decision is between you and your veterinarian. Always discuss puppy vaccinations at your regularly scheduled appointments.That said, here is a generally accepted guideline of the puppy vaccination schedule for the first year.How much vaccinations for your puppy will cost depends on several factors. Where you live is one: Veterinarians in populous and expensive urban areas will charge more than a rural vet in a small town. In other words, there are significant differences in price. But no matter what the range in costs, some vaccines, such as the core vaccines, and for rabies, are necessary.Vet Info has a helpful guideline for the approximate cost of puppy vaccinations for her first year.The initial puppy vaccination costs during the first year are higher than during adulthood.There is a difference of opinion about having your adult dog vaccinated every year. Some vets believe too many vaccinations in adult dogs pose health risks. But others disagree, saying that yearly vaccinations will prevent dangerous diseases such as distemper.Many dog owners opt for titer tests before they administer annual vaccinations. Titer tests measure a dogs immunity levels, and this can determine which, if any, vaccinations are necessary. Please note that a titer test is not an option when it comes to the rabies vaccine. These are required by law (see above). Your vet can tell you the schedule for your particular state.And its all worth it. For your effort and care your puppy will lavish you with lifelong love in return. This important first year of her life is a fun and exciting time for both of you. As she grows physically, the wonderful bond between you will grow, too.For more information about taking care of your new puppy, check out the video below!