If youre an enlightened pet owner, then you probably know about Thimerosal. If youre really on the ball, youll ask your vet for Thimerosal-free vaccines. But are these vaccineswhat they claim to be?Thimerosal is amercury-based vaccine additive thats been used as a preservative for decades.In 1935, five years after Thimerosal was added to vaccines, Eli Lilly (the creator of Thimerosal), was contacted by veterinary vaccine manufacturer Pittman-Moore after they declared Thimerosal to becompletely safe. Pittman-Moore wrote to them:We have obtained marked local reaction in about 50% of the dogs injected with serum containing dilutions of Merthiolate (Thimerosal). Merthioiate is unsatisfactory as a preservative for serum intended for use on dogs.(Director of Biological Services, Pittman-Moore Company, letter to Dr. Jamieson of Eli Lilly Company dated 1935. U.S. Congressional Record, May 21, 2003, E1018, page 9).Wed agree with that statement! Since then, over 160 studies have also shown the dangers of Thimerosal.Since its introduction eighty years ago,Thimerosal has suffered a less-than-spectacular track record:Despite all of the research to the contrary, the Center for Disease Control (CDC) assures consumersthat low doses of thimerosal in vaccines do not cause harm, and are only associated with minor local injection site reactions like redness and swelling at the injection site. But authors Brian Hooker PhD et al recently took the CDC to task on this statement and they found that the CDCs safety research is flawed and falsified.The article, published in BioMed Research International, statesthat while there are over 165 studies that have focused on Thimerosal, the CDC stance that there is no relationship between [T]himerosal[-]containing vaccines and autism rates in children is based on just six studies, which were coauthored and sponsored by the CDC. Moreover, one of the studies cited by the CDC shows a 7.6 fold increased risk of autism in infants exposed to Thimerosal.Hooker et al blew the lid off the CDCs claims of safety and exposed their sponsored studies as biased, with some of these studies even showing Thimerosal to decrease the risk of autism! Of course, the more than 150 independent studies found Thimerosal to increase the risk of serious neurological disorders.Today, veterinary vaccines still contain Thimerosal despite the dire warning signs that have been present for nearly a century. But what of Thimerosal-free vaccines?A few companies are making Thimerosal-free canine rabies vaccines.Merialmakes a Thimerosol-free rabies vaccine calledIMRAB 3 TF(the 3 designates a 3-year vaccine, and TF stands for Thimersol-free). There is also a 1 year version, IMRAB 1 TF.Fort Dodgemakes a Thimerosol-free rabies vaccine called RABVAC 3 TF. And more Thimerosal-free vaccines may appear in the future.Well, not exactly. It seems that theres a little-known vaccine ingredient called an excipient. These substances are used in the production of vaccines, but arent an actual ingredient thats directly added to the vaccine.Know where this is going?Thats right your Thimerosal-free vaccine probably still has Thimerosal in it. But because it wasnt added directly to the vaccine, but used in production, the vaccine manufacturers can claim the vaccine is Thimerosal-free!And this isnt just true for veterinary vaccines.According to the CDC, there are more than a few human vaccines marketed as mercury-free that actually do have Thimerosalin them (less than 3mcgs per vaccine, but still dangerous to human health).So how do you know if the vaccine your vet wants to give your dog has mercury in it?You can ask for the manufacturers data sheet for the vaccineandphone the manufacturer and ask them to email you a list of vaccine excipients before you allow your vet to give that vaccine.But will you get the truth?Dont count on it. Manufacturers can claim proprietary confidentiality when it comes to vaccine ingredients and even the FDA may not know whats in them.Thimerosal-free vaccines may certainly be a better option than their counterparts but the sad reality is this is nothing more than a guess. Consumers, and even the FDA,have no way of knowing if that vaccine truly is free of this dangerous neurotoxin.