In an effort to educate millions worldwide, leading natural health experts from around the globe are teaming up to launch a new campaign entitled Vaccine Information Week. Launching on the 1st of October 2011, the initiative will include hundreds of articles and documents unveiling new developments in the field of vaccine research and information. With the primary focus of the campaign to help consumers make an educated choice when it comes to vaccinating, the campaign will seek to shed light on little-known scientific findings that are instrumental to individuals when deciding whether or not to vaccinate. Many of the articles unveiled with the launch of the campaign will center in on the dangers of this seasons flu vaccine, which the vaccine industry has already begun pushing on citizens nationwide.With legal immunity now granted to vaccine makers, the best proverbial weapon in the intellectual war over the effectiveness of vaccines is to educate and inform the public. The thousands of surveys, studies, trials, and anecdotal experiences regarding vaccines are worth nothing if they are not adequately presented to the general public. Thanks to the large number of organizations participating in the campaign and/or carrying articles published by the campaign writers, millions across the globe will be exposed to explosive vaccine documentation. The volume and quality of the articles and studies may also hit the mainstream media, leading to an overflow of information going supernova into the newsfeeds of the world.Readers, writers, and health experts around the globe can be involved in the campaign, aimed to help consumers educate before they vaccinate. From simply sharing the campaign on social networking sites like Facebook to raise awareness, to creating your own vaccine-related content on October 1st, you can be involved as much or as little ad you would like. The campaign is also seeking aid from website owners, editors, and content writers. Participation from a conglomerate of websites, health-related or not, will ultimately be the most effective medium in delivering hard-hitting content to readers. For those involved, it will be a very rewarding process that will ultimately result in the education of millions worldwide.Join us on October 1st and be a part of the movement to educate the public of vaccine dangers. Join globally recognized health experts in producing hard-hitting content, and help spread the word about Vaccine Information Week.Vaccinations are pushed by the news media and other so-called experts as the miracle cure to a variety of conditions, but have you ever examined the science for yourself? Would the very suggestion that vaccinations are harmful incite anger inside of you, causing you to dismiss this article as hogwash? If vaccinations are truly the silver bullet against deadly diseases, and their safety is indeed based upon concrete science, then there should be no fear as to investigating the matter further.Gardasil is a vaccination that has been linked to multiple deaths and over 8,000 adverse reactions. Recently, the FDA approved this deadly injection to be used against anal cancer. This means that in addition to pushing Gardasil on millions of young men and women to prevent the human papillomavirus (HPV), Gardasil is now marketed towards men and women up to age 26 as a preventative tool against anal cancer. As of January 2010, Gardasil has been linked to 49 deaths and countless side-effects, while cancer associated with HPV is only responsible for 1% of all cancer deaths. Why then, is it being recommended to millions worldwide?Following controversy over U.S. state legislatures requiring young girls to take Gardasil, Mercks vaccine forhuman papillomavirus (HPV), a number of severe side effects have been observed along with therecent deaths of 3 young girls.Gardasil is now marketed towards men and women up to age 26 as a preventative tool against anal cancer. As of January 2010, Gardasil has been linked to49 deaths and countless side-effects, while cancer associated with HPV is only responsible for1% of all cancer deaths. Why then, is it being recommended to millions worldwide?Flu shots have become a product similar to soft drinks or candy bars in the United States. With your local pharmacy advertising flu shots on television and boasting bargain prices, flu shots have become embedded into the mind of the consumer as just another purchase.A purchase that at one time they thought could be beneficial to them, preventing the next wave of the dreary flu that was approaching in a few short months.In light of multiple scientific findings surfacing in the top stories of media outlets worldwide, however, the public is now reconsidering the routine flu shot purchase. So much so that last year Statistics Canada reported that 60% of Canadians and 80% of Americans refused the H1N1 vaccination. The very same H1N1 vaccination that is now coupled with the regular seasonal flu shot.The push for the H1N1-loaded 2011 flu vaccine has begun, with the CDCcalling on healthcare workers and citizens around the world to become vaccinated. The call comes almostafull year after government health chiefsconfirmed a link between the H1N1-containing seasonal flu vaccination and the killer nerve disease known asGuillain-Barre Syndrome (see quoted article below for sourcing). Oftentimes leading topartial paralysis and death,The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) issued a warning over the link following a report that50% of doctors were refusing the swine flu vaccine over health concerns.Parents who do not allow their children to be administered the polio vaccine (Read:78 Percent of Pakistani Children with Polio were Given Polio Vaccines) are now facing jail time for defying a government order in one of Africas most populous nations.Tajuddeen Gambo,the permanent secretary of the Kano state health ministry, said thatNigeria has a law that punishes parents who do not succumb to government demands to vaccinate their children.Assembly Bill 499,currently on the desk ofCalifornia Governor Jerry Brown,required children as young as 12 to be vaccinated with Gardasil, hepatitis B and future vaccines for sexually transmitted diseases without the knowledge or consent of their parents. The news comes after recent reports have linkedGardasil to 49 known deaths and countless side-effects and bad reactions. In comparison, the vaccine is meant to prevent the HPV virus which is responsible for only 1% of all cancers, and70% of all HPV infections resolve themselves within a year, and within 2 years the percentage climbs to 90%.Last year, you would be considered a medical fraud if you were to say that the swine flu vaccine may lead to Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a deadly autoimmune disorder that can lead to partial paralysis and death. Now, however, even the government is admitting that the swine flu vaccine may cause Guillain-Barre Syndrome.The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) issued a statement regarding the link between Guillain-Barre and the swine flu vaccine.Given the uncer tainties in the available information and as with seasonal flu vaccines, a slightly elevated risk of GBS following H1N1 vaccines cannot be ruled out. Epidemiological studies are ongoing to further assess this possible association.As the medical establishment begins the annual push for nationwide flu vaccinations, people are starting to voice their opposition to this years injection.Anew study from Consumer Reports found that 30% of respondents were unsure if they were going to receive this years vaccine, and an additional 30% said they definitely will not be getting the shot. This means 60% of those questioned, which are chosen to represent overall population as accurately as possible, are questioning the effectiveness of the vaccination in some way.Researchers from Britain and Sweden claim to have found a super antibodycalled FI6 that can fight all types ofinfluenza A viruses that cause disease in humans and animals. The scientists used a new method to identify an antibody in humans that is intended to be developed into a universal flu vaccination. There are a number of concerns with this idea of a universal flu vaccine, however. The H1N1 vaccine was pushed as a completely safe method of dealing with swine flu, a pandemic that turned out to be even less of a threat than the seasonal flu.The hepatitis B vaccine has been approved for all U.S. infants at birth, but is it really safe? For a preventative vaccination, the amount of complications associated with the hepatitis B vaccination are quite shocking. In fact, a number of peer-reviewed studies have found a relationship between the hep B vaccination and infant deaths both in the U.S. and Europe. Withlinks to sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), multiple sclerosis, and numerous chronic autoimmune disorders, some doctors are speaking out against the dangers of the hep B vaccine.