Thimerosal including its usage, physical data, stability, toxicology, toxicity and personal protection. According to the United States Department of Labor, Occupational Safety & Health Administration, a Material Safety Data Sheet is a required part of Workplace Chemical Safety Programs: "All employers with hazardous chemicals in their workplaces must have labels and MSDSs for their exposed workers, and train them to handle the chemicals appropriately." Many states have enacted legislation and written regulations with the goal of reducing mercury emissions to air, land and water. These actions cover a range of topics, including banning the sale of certain mercury-containing products, enacting product-labeling legislation, establishing disposal bans and establishing education and collection programs for mercury and mercury-containing products.State regulations for mercury use and release can be more stringent than federal regulations. We recommend that you contact the appropriate state environmental office for more information regarding how mercury might be regulated in your state. The provide links to various state and regional environmental offices with information regarding mercury regulation in their jurisdictions. Health Care Without Harm is an international coalition of more than 470 organizations in 52 countries working to transform the health care sector so it is no longer a source of harm to people and the environment.Mercury is a potent neurotoxin that can harm the brain, spinal cord, kidneys and liver. It is used throughout health care in a variety of products including thermometers, sphygmomanometers, dental amalgam, laboratory chemicals and preservatives such as Thimerosal, cleaning agents, and various electronic devices such as fluorescent lamps and computer equipment.The cumulative usage, spills, breakages and disposal of these products makes the health care sector a significant contributor of mercury pollution in the environment.Fortunately, it is relatively easy to phase out the use of mercury because of the many safe, cost-effective non-mercury alternatives that exist for nearly all uses of mercury in health care.As part of a global initiative to reduce the use and spread of mercury in all aspects of society, Health Care Without Harm is leading the effort to eliminate mercury from the health care sector.Health Care Without Harm Position on Thimerosal in Vaccines http://www.noharm.org/global/issues/toxins/mercury/vaccines.phpVaccination programs provide important public health benefits. Health Care Without Harm (HCWH) recognizes that the continuity and ongoing development of essential vaccination programs are key to achieving global public health. We also recognize the importance of responding to concerns about Thimerosal in vaccines.Thimerosal contains a kind of organic mercury called ethylmercury, used in vaccines as a preservative. Methylmercury, another kind of organic mercury, is a potent developmental neurotoxicant. Although not as thoroughly studied, ethylmercury is similar enough to methylmercury and has properties sufficient to raise legitimate concerns about its impact on the developing brains of children who are exposed to Thimerosal in vaccines.HCWH supports a precautionary approach regarding the use of Thimerosal in vaccines, based on available scientific information.Vaccines that may be hazardous waste when discardedSome vaccines are preserved with 1:10,000 or 0.01 percent Thimerosal (see the vaccines in the table titled "Thimerosal Content in Some U.S. Licensed Vaccines" at www.vaccinesafety.edu/thi-table.htm that have .01% in the Thimerosal Concentration column). Thimerosal contains about 50 percent mercury by weight. Vaccines with 1:10,000 or 0.01 percent Thimerosal have about 50 mg/L mercury, which exceeds the 0.2 mg/L hazardous waste toxicity characteristic regulatory level for mercury. According to state and federal hazardous waste management requirements, discarded Thimerosal-preserved vaccines may need to be managed as hazardous waste, using the waste code D009 (mercury).NOTE: One mercury-containing fever thermometer contains the same amount of mercury (1/2 gram) as 20,000 adult doses of Thimerosal-preserved vaccine. While bulk mercury (e.g., in a mercury fever thermometer) is a bigger threat to human health and the environment compared to a Thimerosal-preserved vaccine, it is still important to manage these discarded vaccines properly.It is illegal to manage Thimerosal-preserved vaccines as infectious waste or regular trash.