Vaccination is an extremely controversial topic these days. Whatever side of the aisle you may fall with regard to your opinion about vaccination, one thing is for certain. The choice to vaccinate or not vaccinate is a decision that has the potential to greatly impact the health of you and most importantly, your children for the rest of their lives.As a result, this decision should not be taken lightly and it should not be made in a vacuum. In other words, dont just take your pediatricians word that shots are safe. It is possible for doctors to be wrong. They are human, after all. In reality, your doctor is simply parroting the standard line about vaccination from the American Medical Association (AMA) playbook. If you think you are getting their honest assessment, think again.You should neither assume shots are dangerous just because your friend down the street doesnt vaccinate her kids.The key here is education; making an informed decision by investigating the facts with an open mind and knowing exactly what you are getting yourself into before you commit to do anything.With that in mind, the list below will briefly detail to you the reasons why I did not vaccinate my own children and will never consider a shot for them for any reason even in the event of a so called pandemic. Please remember that I come from a medical family. My own Father (retired) is a MD as is my brother and my cousin (who was a pediatrician, now deceased). My husbands mother is a nurse. There is no shortage of opinions on this subject in my family, I can assure you.So, dont use family pressure as an excuse to do what you need to do once you investigate the facts for yourself and make an informed decision. There is no more foolish choice than to do something because it is someone elses wishes and not your own. It is your body, after all and these are your children. There is no one on earth who knows what is best for them except you and your spouse not even and most especially not your doctor! Make your decisions feeling confident in this knowledge.Lets just list a couple of the (many) times over the past 10 years where a drug or drug regimen has been deemed unsafe and downright dangerous and yet the pharmaceutical companies covered it up FOR YEARS in order to continue raking in the profits for as long as possible. This should be an easy task.How about hormone replacement therapy for women? The standard of care for a menopausal woman for over 40 years was HRT. Even women with no complaints were advised that this treatment was helpful as it reduced chances for a heart attack and cancer and even helped them feel younger. Were any, I repeat ANY of these claims true? Not a whit. Breast cancer risk is doubled for women on HRT, 41% increased risk for stroke, 29% increased risk of heart attack, and the list goes on and on.How about Vioxx? Before this dangerous drug that caused thousands of deaths from heart attack and stroke was finally removed from the market, evidence surfaced that Merck had withheld information and even doctored reports on its dangers years before. As of November 2007, Merck had agreed to pay $4.85 billion to settle approximately 27,000 cases from victims claiming injury or death of a family member using Vioxx. While this is a huge sum of money, in reality it represents less than one years profits for Merck. Does it pay for a drug company to lie about a drugs safety and efficacy? You betcha. The risk of payouts to victims from getting sued is lower than the lure of huge and long lasting profits while a drugs patent protection remains in effect.I could cite other examples, but Im trying to keep this post as pithy as possible. Please comment if you have other examples of pharmaceutical company deceit. It will help others reading this blog who might still be on the fence about this issue.Remember the old proverb, Fool me once, shame on you; Fool me twice, shame on me? These corporate behemoths have proven themselves to be completely untrustworthy based on past behavior. In a court of law, if such a company were an actual witness, an attorney would never put them on the stand due to a serious lack of credibility. Are you really going to take these companies at their word that these shots are safe when money and profits are impacted by their answer?UPDATE: Merck, the manufacturer of the MMR vaccine is currently embroiled in two lawsuits for falsifying data on the effectiveness of the mumps vaccine. One of these lawsuits was brought by two of its own scientists! Just another example of a the lying and fraud perpetuated by the drug companies with regard to vaccination.Here is a list of some of the damaging ingredients in the vaccines on the market today:MSG, antifreeze, phenol (used as a disinfectant), formaldehyde (cancer causing and used to embalm), aluminum (associated with alzheimers disease and seizures), glycerin (toxic to the kidney, liver, can cause lung damage, gastrointestinal damage and death), lead, cadmium, sulfates, yeast proteins, antibiotics, acetone (used in nail polish remover), neomycin and streptomycin. And the ingredient making the press is thimerosol (more toxic than mercury, a preservative still used in many vaccines, not easily eliminated, can cause severe neurological damage as well as other life threatening autoimmune disease). These vaccines are grown and strained through animal or human tissue, like monkey and dog kidney tissue, chick embryo, calf serum, human diploid cells (the dissected organs of forcibly aborted fetuses), pig blood, horse blood and rabbit brain (1,2).Whats more, recent vaccine testing results published in February 2017 revealed that ALL of them are contaminated with heavy metals (source). ALL vaccines tested contained mercury in small amounts (even the ones that were supposedly mercury free) Half the vaccines contained toxic, carcinogenic nickel in small amounts. Slightly over 1/3 of the tested vaccines contained small amounts of arsenic. Over 90% of the tested vaccines contained uranium (yes, the stuff used to make nuclear bombs). ALL tested vaccines contain minor traces of aluminum, *even if not labeled*.Gardasil, Gardasil 9 and Synflorix contain TWICE as much aluminum as indicated. The aluminum content in the so-called attenuated vaccines is around 1000-6000X times abovethe safe limits for drinking water! And these vaccines are supposedly safer? By the way, aluminum adjuvantscommonly used in vaccines have been identified by immunologists as a trigger for later development of food allergies in children.Can you imagine injecting this cocktail of poison directly into your childs tissues? Anyone who thinks that these contaminants even in small amounts are safe especially for a growing child is just plain out of his/her mind. At least if you ate these ingredients, your body would have a chance to detoxify and eliminate them before any permanent damage could be done. But, to inject them deep into the bodys tissues where the toxins are absorbed directly into the blood is the most damaging and lethal approach imaginable. How could anyoneespecially a doctor possibly think this approach to enhancing immunity to infectious disease is a good idea for the long term health? As it turns out, more doctors are realizing the folly of shots as a growing percentage of pediatricians are declining or delaying shots for their own children!It sure didnt make any sense to me. Here I am, 20 years later, still very happy with my decision NOT to vaccinate my children. Whats more, my three children thank me all the time for not vaccinating them. Why? They see all the health problems their vaccinated friends have, and they are grateful to have been spared the misery.Sadly, I know many parents and caregivers with 20/20 hindsight who greatly regret their decision to vaccinate. I dont know ANYONE who has not vaccinated and regrets their decision, however. Which group do you want to be a part of in 10 years?Comprehensive surveys of more than 12,000 children in the US and Europe have been conducted to date which reveal the truth about the health of vaccinated vs unvaccinated kids. The conclusion?Vaccinated children are more chronically ill than unvaccinated childrenwith rates forautism, ear infections, ADHD, asthma and allergies as much as 30% higher than unvaxed children.Take an informal poll of the folks in your circle and see for yourself. Observation is a powerful tool, so put it to use. The kids with the most health and behavior problems allergies, asthma, ADHD, autism, coordination and other gross motor issues, and the list goes on are the ones that are right on track with their vaccination schedule.Its not just physical illness that plagues vaccinated children either.Research out of Yale and Penn State demonstrated a strong association between vaccination and mental illness in children. 95,000 children were analyzed by the Department of Public Health Science at the Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine and Yale University. A strong association between children receiving vaccinations and then immediate development of brain-related autoimmune and inflammatory disorders: ADHD, OCD, anxiety, depression, bipolar, anorexia, and chronic tic disorder was found (source).For compelling anecdotal evidence, ask Moms with several children, some of whom are vaccinated and some who are not, which of their children are the healthiest. In my own circle, the Moms I know who have one or two older kids who are fully vaccinated and the younger kids who did not get any shots tell me that, hands down, that the unvaccinated children are healthier and have less problems (usually none).Someday there will be a study that shows that unvaccinated children have less health and mental problems than their vaccinated peers. Dont wait until this study is finally done because it will be too late for your child. Whats more, the CDC has repeatedly stated that it will not do such a study. Why not? Because the CDC knows that vaccinated children are unhealthier than their unvaccinated peers.There is plenty of research available NOW for any open-minded, thinking parent to realize that vaccination of a child is a very bad idea. Throw out your preconceived ideas, read the research and realize the reality that shots will very likely doom your child to a life of autoimmune or mental disorder hell. Playing the odds for a healthy child with a robust immune system free of mental health issues critically involves the decision to forgo shots.In 1975, Japan raised its minimum vax age to 2 years old, The countrys infant mortality subsequently plummeted to such low levels that Japan now enjoys one of the lowest level in the Western world (#3 at last look). In comparison, the United States infant mortality rate is #33.In Australia, the flu vaccine was suspended in April 2010 for children under 5 because an alarming number of children were showing up in the emergency rooms with febrile convulsions or other vaccine reactions within hours of getting this shot.In the UK, they dont even require the chicken pox vaccine because it causes so many health problems not just for children, but also triggers the grave risk of a shingles epidemic for adults (source). By the way, the shingles vaccine doesnt even work, which is likely why the UK continues to not offer the varicella vaccine to children.Need I say more?Here is a brief list of some of the vaccines that have caused serious injury in recent years. Please comment with others that you know of if they are not on this list:If the vaccines above have had serious problems, the others probably do too as vaccine manufacturers follow the same basic formula when coming up with each new shot.Procrastination is usually considered a character flaw, but in the case of vaccination, delaying the decision for as long as possible plays to your advantage. The longer you wait to vaccinate your child, the better. A childs immune system continues to develop for years after birth. The blood/brain barrier does not fully develop until adolescence. The longer you wait, the more likely your childs immune system will be able to handle the onslaught with minimal damage.If you dont know what to do, dont do anything!Conversely, you can never undo a vaccination. There are holistic therapies that can detox a child from the vaccines poison, but the damage that is done can never be 100% repaired. And, I have NEVER met a fully vaccinated child that is healthier and more robust than a well nourished, unvaccinated child. Period.While I would like to convince you to never vaccinate your child, if I can simply convince you to delay it for a few years that is certainly better than vaccinating a baby. If you can simply commit to waiting until your child is school age to vaccinate, so much the better than if you vaccinate as a toddler and so on. Time is on your side and waiting is the best policy when it comes to shots.Another vaccine alternative to consider is homeoprophylaxis. This nontoxic method to boost immunity safely is gaining rapid popularity due to the numerous scientific studies involving millions of people to support its efficacy. And, if your child starts to regress after shots, be sure to do the emergency vaccine detox recommended by developmental pediatrician Dr. Mary Megson.By the time your child is older, more research will have been done, you will have an opportunity to learn more and become more comfortable with your decision to wait. Who knows? Your attitude of wait and see may turn out to be permanent like mine was 20 years ago.