OWID presents work from many different people and organizations. When citing this entry, please also cite the original data source. This entry can be cited as: Max Roser (2017) Vaccination. Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: https://ourworldindata.org/vaccination/ [Online Resource]Vaccinations greatly reduced the prevalence of diseases and continues to be important for global health today. The low price of vaccines made them especially attractive as a way to improve global health and vaccines reached billions of people around the world. People in richer countries continue to benefit from the application of vaccinations. But the benefits might possibly be forgotten just because the diseases have lost their threat afterthe introduction of the vaccines.To see how we are benefiting from vaccinations it is necessary to compare the suffering before and after the introduction of the vaccine. This is what Roush and Murphy did for the US, and I have visualized the reduction in mortality for vaccine-preventable diseases in the following graph (and also reprinted a table with more results just below the graph). The graph shows that the reduction in mortality is mostly 100% across multiple vaccine-preventable diseases.Therotavirus is the most common cause of diarrhea and causes 527,000 childhood deaths annually (2011). Many more become sickand are hospitalized.4Mexicointroduced the rotavirus vaccination between2006 and 2007, and the following graph shows howsuccessfulthe countrywide vaccination was. According to the study, diarrhea mortality for children under the age of 5 fell by 56% over three years! The graph shows the seasonal pattern of the disease and how the lifesaving effect of the vaccine affected different age groups.The world map shows the share of children vaccinated against measles. In 1983 the first year for which global data is available only every second child was vaccinated against measles. In the latest data this share has increased to 84% globally.The following graphshows the increasing global coverage of measles-containing vaccine (MCV) and the simultaneousnine-fold reduction of the number of measles cases in our world. The measles vaccine was developed in 1963 and is extremely effective at preventing the disease6.The following chart shows the number of reported cases of measles in the United States from 1980 to 2014. You can add more countries to the chart for comparison. The extremely large outbreak in 1990 in the United States was primarily caused by low vaccination coverage, and lead to a renewed push for vaccination and for the recommendation of a second dose in children. In 2008, there were 140 measles cases in the US, which was the highest annual total since 1996. These cases were caused byincreased measles transmission due to unvaccinated children8. In 2014, 610 cases of measles were reported9. This recent increase in the number of measles cases demonstrates the importance of vaccination.The below map shows the progress over time of DTP3 immunization coverage around the world.The most progress yetto be made is in Sub-Saharan Africa.Vaccines typically cause acquired immunity via some agent inside the vaccine that resembles the disease-causing microorganism. The agent can be made of killed or weakened forms of the microorganism, its toxins or its surface proteins. More information about vaccines in general can be found at the Wikipedia page on vaccines.