Life-saving immunizations are one of seven great achievements in pediatric research in the past 40 years (Cheng, Monteiro et al. 2016).Since its inception in 1974,the CVD has worked to eliminate vaccine-preventable diseases. The CVD has created and tested vaccines against cholera, typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, non-typhoidal salmonella disease, shigellosis (bacillary dysentery), Escherichia coli diarrhea, nosocomial pathogens, tularemia, influenza, and other infectious diseases. The faculty and global staff includes molecular biologists, microbiologists, immunologists, internists, pediatricians, epidemiologists, malariologists, and biostatisticians.Vaccines are a powerful tool to fight infectious diseases worldwide. For over 40 years, the CVD at the University of Maryland School of Medicine (UM SOM) in Baltimore, MD has worked domestically and internationally to develop, test, and deploy vaccines to aid the worlds underserved populations. The CVD is an academic enterprise engaged in the full range of vaccinology from basic laboratory research through vaccine development, pre-clinical and clinical evaluation, large-scale pre-licensure field studies, and post-licensure assessments.While the main research thrust of basic research at the CVD has historically focused on bacterial enteric pathogens, rotavirus, and malaria, it has also worked more broadly on bacterial diseases, parasitic diseases, viral diseases, novel delivery systems, public health, and vaccine policy.Learn more about us in the CVD Fact Sheet.Dr. Neuzil brings over two decades of experience in infectious diseases and vaccine science, policy, and introduction. Shes led or been involved in pivotal vaccine trials that have influenced vaccine policy worldwide. A strong advocate for translating research results into vaccine policies, she was a key driver in the many changes in the influenza policy in the United States. Internationally, her research helped shape rotavirus vaccine policy. She is an expert on influenza, rotavirus, and RSV as well as in maternal immunization, optimizing vaccine use, and overcoming barriers to sustainable vaccine uptake in low resource settings.Harness the power of vaccines to prevent disease and save lives in the most vulnerable populations.