Reactions to vaccines are real. They can range from mild to severe, and there is no clear cut path to navigating them. Information on handling vaccine side-effects may be difficult to find. Here are some steps that may help if someone in your family suffers a negative reaction.Some reactions, such as seizures or swelling of the airways, can be serious, and your child may need medical attention. If you dont get an answer that you feel comfortable with, call again, make an appointment, or go to the emergency room.Take pictures of any physical reactions like swelling, redness, or rashes. Take videos daily of speech patterns, motor skills, and personal interactions. Sometimes changes can occur slowly, over time, and taking videos can be a good way to monitor these changes.Medical records are legal documents which you have a right to access, and they can be useful if any claims are filed. Make sure they are complete. For example, all phone calls from you expressing concern to the office are in the chart, your childs vaccine record has been documented and includes vaccine lot numbers (like a serial number), manufacturer, expiration dates, vaccine administration sites, and that all developmental screenings are present (usually performed at well child visits).The Vaccine Adverse Effects Reporting System (VAERS) is a national vaccine safety surveillance program that encourages families or health care practitioners to report any event that occurs after a routine vaccination. VAERS was developed to monitor adverse events that occur after recommended vaccinations.To assist the government in tracking these events, and to ultimately help develop safer vaccines and vaccine schedules, individuals and physicians are encouraged to report all vaccine adverse events.When something like a vaccine reaction happens, the last thing you may be thinking about is the environment, but recovery is all about getting back to basics clean food, clean air, and clean water, as well as plenty of rest, decreased stress, and lots of nutrition. Making sure that the injured individual is in optimal health both before and after vaccination can make all the difference.If your or your childs injury is significant, you have an option to petition a special, government-funded court. Although vaccine manufacturers cannot be sued directly, the Vaccine Injury Compensation Court exists to ensure that families touched by vaccine injury are able to pursue litigation.Privacy Policy and Terms of Use