What Is the Vaccines for Children Program?The Vaccines For Children (VFC) program is a federal program that provides vaccines at no cost to children who might not otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) buys vaccines at a discount and distributes them to state health departments, and certain local and territorial public health agencies. These agencies in turn distribute the vaccines at no charge to private physicians' offices, community health centers and public health clinics enrolled as VFC providers. Children who are eligible for VFC vaccines are entitled to receive all vaccines recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). These vaccines protect babies, young children, and adolescents from 16 different diseases.What Is the Cost of the Vaccines?There is no charge for the vaccines administered by an enrolled VFC provider; however, providers are allowed to charge a standard fee to help cover the costs of administering the vaccines. There may also be charges if the vaccines are administered as part of health visit or charges for non-vaccine related services (ie lab services).Which Children Are Eligible for the VFC Program?Children under 19 years are eligible to receive vaccines through the VFC program if they meet one of the following criteria:Underinsured means the child has health insurance, but the insurance either doesnt cover the recommended vaccine(s), or only covers a fixed dollar amount for vaccines. A child becomes eligible once the fixed dollar amount is reached.Children whose health insurance covers the cost of vaccinations are not eligible for VFC vaccines, even when a claim for the cost of the vaccine, and its administration would be denied for payment by the insurance carrier because the plan's deductible had not been met.Click here to find a VFC provider in your county: http://www.in.gov/isdh/26482.htm. You may also contact the Indiana State Department of Health Immunization Division at 1(800) 701-0704.For more information about the Vaccines for Children Program, please visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website at: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/programs/vfc/index.htmlAre There Any Vaccination Programs Available for Adults Who Do Not Have Health Insurance and Need Vaccines?Certain providers, including birthing hospitals and prenatal clinics, in the state of Indiana are enrolled as Adult Providers in Indianas publicly funded vaccine program. These providers can offer the hepatitis vaccines and the Tdap vaccine to adults who meet certain risk factors and do not have any health insurance.Please visit our webpage pertaining to the Indiana State Department of Health Adult Immunization Program. You may click here to find an Adult provider in your county: http://www.in.gov/isdh/26540.htm. You may also contact the Indiana State Department of Health Immunization Division at 1(800) 701-0704 for more information about the program.