For the complete interview in Autism File Magazine, click here.Environmental and humanitarian legend RFK, Jr., mainstream media, and thevery corrupt CDC Interview by Autism File executive editor, Rita Shreffler For over three decades, Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. has been one of the world'sleading environmental advocates. He is the founder and president ofWaterkeeper Alliance, the umbrella group for 300 local waterkeeperorganizations, in 34 countries, that track down and sue polluters. Under hisleadership, Waterkeeper has grown to become the world's largest clean wateradvocacy organization. Around 2005, parents of vaccine-injured children started encountering Mr.Kennedy's speeches and writings about the toxic mercury-based preservativethimerosal. They embraced new hope that this environmental champion wouldfinally expose the truth about vaccine injury and win justice for injuredchildren. Kennedy is known for his fierce and relentless brand ofenvironmental activism and his advocacy for transparent government andrigorous science. He is now applying his tenacious energies andsophisticated strategies to exposing the fraud and corruption within the CDCand the pharmaceutical industry. Last month, he launched his new non-profit,the World Mercury Project, with vaccine safety advocates Lyn Redwood andLaura Bono, legends themselves among parents of vaccine-injured children. Autism File executive editor Rita Shreffler spoke with Mr. Kennedy about CDCcorruption, pharmaceutical industry greed, media malpractice, and his visionfor the World Mercury Project.Get access the interview in Autism File Magazine.For more information on thimerosal, visit the GreenMedInfo.com Research Dashboard.Should I Get the Flu Shot? CDC Data Raise Concerns:Not only are there serious questions about the efficacy of the flu vaccine, there is evidence to suggest that getting the vaccine every year may cause damage to the immune system.Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. Launches The World Mercury Project:Robert F Kennedy Jr. vows to change government policies that injure children.