Q: Can vaccines cause side effects? A: Vaccines are safe, but like any medicine, vaccines sometimes cause reactions or side effects. Most of the time, the reactions are localized (soreness or redness where the shot is given), mild and brief (lasting no more than a day or two). A low-grade fever can also sometimes occur, but anything more serious is rare. Proving that a vaccine is related to a specific side effect isn't easy. That's because little kids get sick a lot anyway and there's a chance they could be coming down with something coincidentally right around the time they received a vaccine possibly causing some to blame the vaccine when the blame really lies with the germs picked up at the playground.It's also important to consider that vaccines are given at a time in life when certain health conditions begin or become apparent. For example, the MMR vaccine is given at a year to 15 months, the same time that developmental delays are often noticed in a child, causing questions as to the relationship between the vaccine and the delays.Regardless, if your child has a serious side effect from a vaccine (which would be rare), such as an allergic reaction (signs would include difficulty breathing, wheezing, hives, weakness, dizziness, paleness, swelling of the throat, or a fast heartbeat) or if your child develops a high fever or you notice any behavior changes following a vaccine, call your doctor(or take your child to the doctor or emergency room) right away.Q: Is there any mercury in vaccines? A: Small amounts of thimerosal, an organic mercury-based preservative, had been used in some vaccines since the 1930s to prevent bacterial and fungal contamination. Thimerosal is also currently found in some commonly used medicines and products such as contact lens solutions and throat and nasal sprays.Even though several studies have shown that the very low levels of thimerosal once used in some vaccines didn't cause harm, and though research suggests the thimerosal used in vaccines is expelled from an infant's body faster than the type of mercury found in fish, therefore leaving little chance for buildup in a baby's body, many experts believe that limiting any mercury exposure for children is a smart idea.Accordingly, since 2001 in the US, all routinely recommended vaccines made for infants have been either thimerosal free or have contained only extremely small amounts of thimerosal. What's more, most of the recommended childhood vaccines (MMR, IPV, varicella, and PCV) never contained thimerosal at all.Most importantly, numerous large-scale studies have not supported the theory that the small amount of mercury in a vaccine can cause developmental delays or disorders.Q: Can vaccines cause developmental disorders? A: Numerous studies involving children have found no link between vaccines and developmental disorders such as autism. A report from the Institute of Medicine in 2004, based on comprehensive data and evidence gathered over a number of years, found no link between thimerosal (mercury in vaccines) and developmental disorders and no link between the MMR vaccine and developmental disorders. In fact, the long-disputed 1998 study that suggested a possible link between the MMR vaccine and autismwas retracted in 2004 and has been rejected by all major health organizations, including the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the World Health Organization (WHO).While this area continues to be researched, no other study has found a link between vaccines and developmental disorders, between the small amount of thimerosal (mercury) in vaccines and developmental disorders (or cognitive and behavioral problems), or between the increasing diagnosis of autism in recent years and vaccines.