Vaccines and autism are not linked or related according to real science, published in real scientific journals written by top scientists and physicians.But this false claim is in the news again. Probably as a result of reports that more and more children are being diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders. So lets take a look at the science.On 28 March 2014, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announcedthat new datashow that the estimated number of children identified with autism spectrum disorder (ASD),a disorder of neural development,usually appearing before the age of 3 years, characterized by impaired social interaction and verbal and non-verbal communication, and by restricted, repetitive or stereotyped behavior,continues to rise. The picture of ASD in US communities is changing.According to the study:In fact, the researchers carefully clarified the limitations of this study (probably to reduce panic):In other words, some of it may be due to the way children are identified, diagnosed, and served in their local communities, but exactly how much is unknown. There is so much variance in the data, it is almost impossible to determine a strong correlation between the increased diagnosis and some causal, environmental factor.Of course, there is a ridiculous belief that increased vaccinations and poorly designed vaccines, withthiomersal made out to be the lead villain, has led to the increased rates of ASD. This legend is based upon aretractedand fraudulent paper authored byMr.Andy Wakefieldwhoalleged a connection between the MMR vaccine and autism. If you want to read all about Wakefields despicable deceit, you can read ithere,here, andhere, a series of articles published in theBritish Medical Journal, a respected peer-reviewed publication.Despite the fact that the CDC is unsure of why there is an increase (speculating on how we gather data rather than an environmental cause), despite the fact that Andy Wakefield lied, the antivaccination cult cannot help themselves in creating conspiracies or outlandish claimsthat vaccines cause autism.Oneantivaccination lunatic, Ginger Taylor in her antiscientificwebsite, Adventures in Autism,who appears to lack any formal education in science and has no critical thinking skills,cherry-picked 80 (give or take) studies that seem to support the hypothesis that vaccines cause autism.Except, of the 80, at least 20-25 do not make the conclusion that the author wants us to believe. Either the researchers are talking about a whole different topic, or the data was so weak that theres barely a statistical difference in the autism and non-autism groups.Ginger is pandering to her uneducated acolytes who dont actually know how to read scientific articles. Lucky for humanity and the health of children who wont have to suffer from vaccine preventable diseases, some of us know how to read and refute Gingers list of bogus studies.Whats particularly laughable is that she uses numerous citations fromLucija Tomljenovic and Christopher Shaw, both of whom could be generously described as real shills for the antivaccination movement. Very well paid shills in fact. There articles are based on ludicrous science, published in terrible open access, and some cases, cursory (or even non-existent)peer-reviewed journals. If these two antivaccine shills actually had real data, why isnt it published in top notch journals that relish the publicity of cutting-edge science. Like Lancet. Or New England Journal of Medicine. I guess if you have bogus data published in bad journals, you get what you get. Right Ginger Taylor?By cherry picking a handful of poorly designed articles in poor journals, the antivaccine cult tends to find anything that supports their a priori conclusion that vaccines are horrific and they cause autism.Proper scientifically skeptical thinking says that you review all evidence, giving weight to the quality and quantity of evidence that supports one conclusion or another. These vaccine deniers ignore the vast weight of evidence of real science published in real journals.Real science shows that notonly do we lack evidence that vaccines cause autism, we have affirmative evidence that vaccines do not cause autism.For just one example,published in the journalVaccine, is a meta-analysis offivecohort studiesinvolving 1,256,407 children, and fivecase-control studiesinvolving 9920 children.As Ive written before, meta-analyses form the basis, the deep foundation, of the scientific consensus, andthey are the highest qualityscientificevidence available. This study is like a gigantic clinical trial because it rolls up the highest quality data from those millions of subjects to develop solid conclusions.This was a powerful, large, and well analyzed meta-review. This studytakes all of the evidence and data that had been developed previously, and rolled it up into one huge cohort and clinical trial. And once again, we find that vaccines dont cause autism.Below is a list of over 120peer reviewed articles, published in the best This isnt a list of every article published over the past 20 years that rejects the hypothesis that vaccines or its ingredients are linked to autism.There are probably 1000 more than reject the belief that vaccines cause autism.The myth that vaccines cause autism is dead dead dead.However, Im not a fool. The zombie vaccine myths continue to rise from the dead.Editors note: This article was originally published in April2014. It has been and will continue to be regularly updated as new research is published.Heres a list of 125peer-reviewed articles, published in high impact factor journals, that document the lack of correlation (and therefore causation) between vaccines and autism.Note: In almost every case in the list above, Ive linked to the PubMed abstract, which often has limited information and lacks detailed analyses of methods, statistics and results. It is always preferred that you read the full article, but many of these publications sit behind expensive paywalls (I hate paywalls, they limit free access of scientific data). Students, especially in scientific fields and most academic physicians have access to the full article through their schools journal search engine. I have personal access to many, if not most, of the actual articles, and have read it in detail.PubMed occasionally links to a free full version of the article. It can be found on buttons on the top right of the PubMed page, which say Free Full Text or something similar. These links may direct you to the actual journal, who graciously makes some articles free for the public, or to PubMed Central, a US National Institutes of Health library of full text medical and biological articles (although you can find the occasional article in other areas of science). I do not link, usually, to the free version of an article because it changes all the time, so I have found it better to go to PubMed. If there is a PubMed Central version of the article, you will see PubMed Central PMCID: in the standardized citation (which I always use for scientific journal articles). Using the PMC number, you can search for it through Google or thePMC website.Also, many thanks to the brilliant folks at a pro-vaccine Facebook Page who put many hours into creating this list. I cant link to the group or the individuals publicly, but they know who they are, and they made this blog post relatively easy. Ive adapted the list to the scientific citation style that I prefer to use, and added a few additional articles that support the scientific consensus.