The Law Firm of Ragsdale LLC has been the lawyer for many clients from throughout the United States who have been injured by vaccines. Immunizations, while beneficial, do carry a small risk of adverse reactions. Vaccine injuries are often debilitating, painful, and costly. Because vaccine injuries are rare, treating physicians often do not make the connection between the disease and the vaccine. Most patients and physicians are unaware of the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP). If you or your child experiences an autoimmune or autoinflammatory disorder, or any of the conditions listed below, and received a vaccination before symptoms appeared, we encourage you to call or email us. There is no charge. We assist people from anywhere in the United States with their vaccine injury claims. We are among the 300 attorneys in the United States listed as Vaccine Attorneys in the Court of Federal Claims in Washington, DC. We are fortunate to be located near the physicians and researchers at the neighboring, world renowned research hospitals, The University of Alabama at BirminghamSchool of Medicine and Children's of Alabama who have been willing to share their expertise with us in these complex areas of medicine. We have lawyers and staff who work exclusively on Vaccine Injury cases and can answer your questions at any time. Other information about the vaccine injury compensation program in Washington, DC is found on the court's website here. INJURIES THAT MAY BE CAUSED BY VACCINES Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (DTaP, DTP, DTP-Hib, DT, Td, and TT) Measles, mumps and rubella (MMR, MR, M, R) Polio (IPV and OPV) Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) Hepatitis B (HBV) Varicella (VZV) Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) can strike anyone. It can be triggered by flu shots and other vaccines. Most people recover from GBS, but it is a long and painful process. The Health and Human Services Department has announced proposed changes to the Vaccine Injury program that, if approved, could improve one's chances of obtaining compensation especially with regard to flu vaccine induced Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) and shoulder injuries related to vaccines (SIRVA). The time for filing the claim will be extended from 3 years to approximately 8 years; anyone who has acquired GBS or a shoulder injury following a flu vaccine should consult an attorney knowledgeable about vaccine litigation.