Editors Note (1/11/17): Update: A presidential transition national spokeswoman has said that the president-elect would like to a form a commission on autism, but no final decision has been made.WASHINGTONOutspoken vaccine criticRobert Kennedy Jr. has accepted a position within Donald Trumps administration aschair of a panel on vaccine safety and scientific integritythe clearest sign yet of the president-elects suspicions aboutvaccines.The offer, which came in a Wednesdaymeeting between Trump and the scion of Americas most prominent Democratic family, is likely to concernscientists and public health experts who fear the incoming administration could give legitimacy to skeptics of childhood immunizations, despite a huge body of scientific research demonstratingthat vaccines are safe.President-elect Trump has some doubts about the current vaccine policies and he has questions about it, Kennedy told reporters after the meeting. His opinion doesnt matter but the science does matter and we ought to be reading the science and we ought to be debating the science. And that everybody ought to be able to be assured that the vaccines that we havehes very pro-vaccine, as am Ibut theyre as safe as they possibly can be.Kennedy has repeatedly questioned the safety of vaccines and advanced arguments that there is a link between the immunizationsand autism. He has suggestedthat thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative used in vaccines, can be harmful to children, a notion that has been widely debunked.Public health agencies did suggest manufacturers eliminate or reduce the amount of thimerosal in vaccines and many have done so. Buta number of studies have also discredited the idea of thimerosal isa cause of autism.Kennedys work on autism has created controversy over the years. In 2005 he wrote an expose, co-published bySalonandRolling Stone, contending that scientists were hiding the link between thimerosal and autism. Years later, Salon retracted the story, noting its basic thesis was inaccurate.Rolling Stonedeleted it.But Kennedy was not finished with the subject. He edited a 2014 book called Thimerosal: Let the Science Speak: The Evidence Supporting the Immediate Removal of Mercurya Known Neurotoxinfrom Vaccines. The volume makes the case that thimerosal is still causing autism and other neurological problems, and should be eliminated worldwide.While Trumps casual remarks on vaccines have alarmed public health advocates, they haveenergized the anti-vaccination movement. He met over the summer withAndrew Wakefield, a former medical doctor who wrote a well-publicized study that kicked off the movement. Wakefields study was later discredited and his medical license was revoked.During the presidential campaign, Trump said he wants smaller doses over a longer period of time. He has previously tweeted: Healthy young child goes to doctor, gets pumped with massive shot of many vaccines, doesnt feel good and changes AUTISM. Many such cases!Kennedy is the son of the former attorney general and nephew of the late President John F. Kennedy.