Normally, these days I greet the month of October with a mixture of anticipation and dread. The anticipation stems from Octobers position as Breast Cancer Awareness Month. Now that somehow Ive managed to have a variety of responsibilities with respect to how breast cancer is managed at our cancer institute, suddenly I find that Im sometimes called upon to do media appearances, and Breast Cancer Awareness Month is one time we can use to get our message out about breast health and breast cancer detection and treatment, not to mention to highlight for the local media some of the cool research that goes on here. Every year (or so it would seem) the quacks, cranks, and haters of science-based medicine come out of the woodwork to use October as an excuse either to attack conventional medicine (particularly anything related to breast cancer), promote quackery, or both. Be it Christiane Northrup promoting thermography, as she did last year and is doing again this year, Mike Adams really bringing home the crazy over Breast Cancer Awareness month year after year, Dan Olmsted trying to co-opt the month for his anti-vaccine views (I kid you not), or Dennis Byrne promoting the scientifically discredited idea that abortion causes breast cancer, usually I can count on attacks on breast cancer science and medicine so full of napalm-grade burning stupid that no neuron can withstand the heat. Oddly enough, this October has been pretty quiet so far. Other than Mike Adams taking a couple of swipes at Susan G. Komen for the Cure and Whole Foods, the latter of which committed the crime (in Mike Adams eyes) of supporting pink breast cancer awareness campaigns, theres been surprisingly little breast cancer-related activity on the crank front.Oh, well. Theres still more than a third of the month left for quacks to make me cringe. At least I often get blogging material about it.However, apparently October has other significance to cranks. True, the month is more than half over, which makes it odd that I hadnt really noticed this before. Or maybe its not so odd. Apparently anti-vaccine loons are trying to co-opt Breast Cancer Awareness Month by making it their own. Thats right. Somehow, somewhere, anti-vaccine loons got the idea in their head that October should be Vaccine Injury Awareness Month. And the anti-vaccine movement is piling on, including the anti-Gardasil site The Truth About Gardasil and, perhaps most prominent of all, Dr. Mayer Eisenstein, founder of the crunchy, holistic Homefirst practice in the Chicago area who has bought into Mark and David Geiers Lupron protocol. Many of them are linking or embedding this video: Regular readers of this blog will recognize the panoply of anti-vaccine canards in the video above, including the toxin gambit, the too many too soon gambit, and other misinformation about vaccines, including claims that no safety studies are done and that we dont study the effects of multiple vaccinations when in fact all new vaccines are studied within the context of the current vaccination schedule. And then, embedded in that video, we find:Not nearly as insane as the video and the nonsense being promoted by the anti-vaccine movement. Actually, what we have here is a classic appeal to incredulity. Just because the creator of the video, who appears to be a woman named Joanne, who is responsible for an ant-vaccine blog I had never heard of before, Are Vaccines Safe?, cant understand how vaccines dont have massive negative health effects, she assumes they must be very harmful. Its also a straw man argument in that no one claims that vaccines are absolutely safe. Incredibly safe under any reasonable definition of the word safe? Definitely. Far safer than the risk of the diseases they prevent. Almost always. So safe that serious adverse reactions are incredibly rare? Of course. But no one says that vaccines never cause injury. What science does say is that the claims of anti-vaccine propagandists that vaccines cause autism, autoimmune diseases, dementia, and other chronic diseases are without a basis in science.The rest of the video parrots classic anti-vaccine canards such as the vaccines damage the immune system gambit (they dont). It all concludes with a plea to educate before you vaccinate.Meanwhile, on NaturalNews.com, Paul Frassa is spewing stuff like this:If the CDC has declared the current swine flu (H1N1) as harmless, I have not seen the declaration. In fact, if you peruse the CDC website about H1N1, youll find this passage:Funny, that doesnt sound as though the CDC has declared H1N1 harmless to me.Oddly enough, I dont see much evidence that the NVIC and Generation Rescue, the two most active anti-vaccine organizations, have anything to do with this. It appears to originate from a small anti-vaccine blog and then picked up upon by the big dogs, like Mike Adams at NaturalNews.com and Mayer Eisenstein, who is undoubtedly a big name in the anti-vaccine movement. Indeed, hes been out there saying things like:October is the month to acknowledge and honor those families whose loved ones have been injured by vaccines. These faceless (in many cases), nameless and numerous families are hurting and they need our help. One of the ways we can assist them is by spreading the word that vaccine injuries are real and they are far more common then we have been led to believe. If you are on facebook or twitter, please use the image below as your profile image for the month of October. Please spread the word amongst your own networks. Bring the issue of vaccine injuries out into the publics eye.Well, at least Dr. Eisenstein is honest. No Im not anti-vaccine; Im pro-safe vaccine for him! He lays it all out on the line, letting his freak flag fly high! If ever Dr. Eisenstein ever claims that he isnt anti-vaccine again, Ill point you, my readers, to this statement by him. Whoever thought up the boneheaded, brain dead idea of trying to declare October Vaccine Injury Awareness Month, Mayer Eisenstein has glommed onto it like fleas on a dogor maybe a better metaphor would be maggots on a rotting corpse, because the ideas and anti-vaccine lies that Eisenstein promotes are very much like a rotting corpse: dead, bloated, and stinky.Personally, I find this video to be a far more accurate description of Eisenstein:Months after I first discovered that video, I find it amazing that Dr. Eisenstein appears not to be the least bit embarrassed by it.Obviously, this attempt by the anti-vaccine movement to associate itself with Breast Cancer Awareness Month by trying to claim October for its own is laughable and pathetic in the extreme.You know, even though October is only a little more than half over and I havent (yet) seen stupid-based attacks on science-based medicine for breast cancer, given that its Breast Cancer Awareness Month, its obvious that I have encountered even more stupid-based attacks on the science of vaccines, courtesy of Vaccine Awareness Month, courtesy of Dr. Mayer Eisenstein, Paul Frassa, and a blogger named Joanne. Think of it this way: If Age of Autism wont bite when it comes to promoting Vaccine Injury Awareness Month, that ought to tell you something.Certainly it told me something.