On February 15, Robert F. Kennedy Jr. chairman of The World Mercury Project, founded in November, 2016 held a press conference at The National Press Club in Washington D.C., calling for an open and honest discussion about vaccine safety. Actor Robert De Niro, whose son has autism, was also in attendance.During that press conference, Kennedy challenged journalists to do their job rather than simply regurgitate vaccine industry propaganda.He also offered $100,000 to anyone who can find a published study indexed in PubMed proving mercury levels in vaccines are harmless for infants and developing fetuses at the levels given. As reported by Epoch Times:1Ironically, articles arbitrarily defending the mercury preservative thimerosal2 in vaccines are being published without producing much, if anything, in terms of evidence that it is safe to inject children and pregnant women with mercury in any amount. Take Kate Feldman's piece in the New York Daily News:3Aside from not providing a single reference or link to the CDC studies in question so that interested parties might follow up on them, Feldman fails in her journalistic duty by not addressing a single argument brought forth by the other side and there are many to choose from.This is typical of mainstream media, carelessly defending the safety of vaccines without addressing the evidence that has been accumulating for a long time suggesting otherwise. This includes:While Kennedy appears primarily focused on the potential role of thimerosal in causing vaccine damage, researchers have presented a number of other potential mechanisms of vaccine harm, including the long acknowledged ability of vaccines to cause brain inflammation (encephalitis/encephalopathy), the toxic effects of aluminum adjuvants and other toxic vaccine ingredients, and the hazards of immune overstimulation by virtually any means.For example, pertussis toxin13 and live measles virus,14 can cause brain inflammation and permanent brain damage regardless of thimerosal.As noted by Tomljenovic, it's important to realize that autism is not just a brain disorder; it's also an immune system disorder. She calls it an immune system brain disorder, as the two systems are connected. In my 2015 interview with her, she said:So, while I hope Kennedy's passion and determination will further a more open public dialogue on, and scientific investigation into, vaccine safety, I believe it's a mistake to single out or focus all of the attention on thimerosal. Examples of other vaccine ingredients and factors related to vaccination that may be harmful to health include:My point is that vaccine safety is not merely an issue of answering the question "does thimerosal cause autism?" Even if thimerosal is removed from every single vaccine or is unequivocally exonerated as completely harmless, the issue of whether or not vaccines are safe in the long term would still remain, because there are so many other potential hazards and unanswered questions involved.Thimerosal preservatives are not present in live virus vaccines such as MMR, and thimerosal amounts were substantially reduced or eliminated in most inactivated vaccines after the FDA and EPA told vaccine manufacturers in 1999 to remove mercury from childhood vaccines, yet vaccine damage, including the unexplained increase in autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders among children, is still a pressing reality.At present, thimerosal is primarily found in varying amounts in some inactivated influenza and meningococcal vaccines, and certain tetanus-containing vaccines (T, Td/DT).19Moreover, vaccine safety is not simply a matter of proving or disproving the link between vaccines in general and autism specifically. There are many other, potentially severe side effects, including immune system dysfunction, that can lead to or exacerbate any number of health problems. Veterinary scientists have even noted increasing rates of autoimmune problems in dogs following vaccination.So even if the thimerosal and autism issues were both resolved, the question of whether it's wise public health policy and safe to administer 69 doses of vaccines between birth and age 18 to every child, without exception, would still remain.Kennedy recently co-wrote an article in which he released documents revealing that officials at the FDA and CDC "knew that infant vaccines were exposing American children to mercury far in excess of all federal safety guidelines since 1999."20 According to Kennedy:The reason you've never heard about this is because the FDA concealed it with a statistical trick. By averaging the mercury exposure over a period of six months, the spikes in mercury on the days of vaccination disappeared. Voila by massaging the way the data is reported the effect went from being 12 times over the level of mercury poisoning to being of no consequence. As noted by Kennedy:This is why journalists who merely parrot the approved FDA and CDC talking points do readers such a tremendous disservice. Both agencies have been accused of malfeasance and cover-up of important safety data, and until or unless we get to the bottom of the truth, they cannot be relied on as the final arbiters of what's safe and what's not.Kennedy has also reported that the CDC owns more than 20 different vaccine patents and sells $4.1 billion in vaccines each year, noting that those patents create a significant undisclosed conflict of interest when it comes to the agency's involvement in vaccine safety.21,22Mainstream media journalists like to insinuate that President Trump and Kennedy are somehow unduly influenced by Andrew Wakefield, a former gastroenterologist whose entire career was flushed down the proverbial tubes as a result of his raising the possibility of a link between the measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine and development of autism in some children. As just one example, KUTV.com writes:23What many people don't know is that Wakefield never actually performed a study to ascertain whether the MMR vaccine caused autism. What he along with 12 other colleagues did was to publish a case series paper in The Lancet, reporting that parents of 9 of 12 children they'd seen for chronic gastrointestinal symptoms told them their children's symptoms had begun soon after getting the MMR vaccine.A case series paper is very different from a controlled study. It merely describes experiences of a single patient or group of patients with a similar diagnosis. As Wakefield points out in his book, "Callous Disregard," the purpose of a case series paper is to "generate new hypotheses." It is not supposed to suggest or investigate possible causality and Wakefield's paper did not make any causal claims. Rather, he and his colleagues concluded:24Wakefield was targeted for vilification even though he and his colleagues simply articulated the hypothesis. Eventually, the paper was retracted after generating massive international controversy and denials by public health officials and doctors giving vaccines to children, who claimed the paper unnecessarily frightened and caused parents to question the safety of vaccines.However, to use Wakefield's case paper as "proof" that there is no link between vaccination and autism because one study, which raised the possibility of a potential link between MMR vaccine and autism was subsequently discredited and withdrawn, is patently misleading.What happened to Wakefield is powerful testimony of the danger that research scientists and physicians face if they draw the ire of the vaccine industry, government health officials and medical organizations promoting mandatory vaccination. The threat to one's livelihood is in and of itself a factor that prevents much needed independent vaccine safety research.Last month, Kennedy told reporters that President Trump had asked him to chair a commission on vaccine safety and scientific integrity. During the February 15 press conference, he said discussions about the establishment of such a commission are still ongoing. He's cautiously optimistic the White House will follow through on it.25,26Indeed, the vaccine industry's self-protection mode is now in overdrive. According to Science Magazine,27 " [M]ore than 350 scientific and medical organizations, led by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), wrote to Trump on February 7, reminding him: 'Vaccines are safe. Vaccines are effective. Vaccines safe [sic] lives.'"According to this letter, "Claims that vaccines are unsafe when administered according to expert recommendations have been disproven by a robust body of medical literature." Proving their point, 41 published studies were listed, all of which focused on and refuted links between vaccines and autism specifically.However, as Barbara Loe Fisher, co-founder and president of the National Vaccine Information Center, commented in a press release after the Institute of Medicine in National Academy of Sciences released a report in 2013 on the safety of federally recommended childhood vaccine schedule:NVIC highlighted the fact that there is so little published research about the safety of the childhood vaccine schedule that the IOM committee could not determine whether the child vaccine schedule was or was not associated with development of a whole range of serious diseases and disorders in children, including autism:28From my point of view, there can be little doubt that we need to review the safety and effectiveness of the current vaccination program in the U.S., and that this review needs to include methodologically sound investigative studies that are not compromised by conflicts of interest within industry and government. As noted in a January 10, 2017, Facebook post by Congressman Bill Posey (R-FL):29On Friday, Mar. 31, 2017, a Revolution for Truth rally will be held on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. from 1 to 5 p.m. Organized by Vaccine Injury Awareness League (VIAL) with support from Kennedy's World Mercury Project and other groups, the rally is being held to take a stand for freedom of thought, speech and conscience.Those gathering in DC are protesting the exploitation of people's health by the chemical and pharmaceutical industries with the cooperation of government, and the corporatized mainstream media's biased coverage of environmental protection and vaccine safety and choice issues.Speakers include doctors, attorneys, journalists, filmmakers, parental rights advocates and civil and human rights activists calling for truth, integrity and transparency in government and the media, with RFK, Jr. delivering the keynote address.