Wikileaks dropped another cache of Hillary Clinton hacked emails the other day and lookey lookey what was in there: an email from a top Hillary donor written to the Chairman of the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign on the topic of autism and mercury in vaccines.The email came from global warming activist Wendy Abrams, who has given, at minimum, hundreds of thousands of dollars to her pal Hillary through the Clinton Foundation in addition to donating to her campaign. It was written to John Podesta, who is still running Hillarys campaign for president. Entitled Ill make you a bet, it was sent on July 5, 2015 and reads:With regard to thimerosal, I have one simple question, why do we ever want to inject any amount of mercury into our bodies, much less a pregnant woman? The medical experts, CDC, ACOG, etc. claim that thimerosal is fine and it is not a risk because it is present in trace amounts, but what does that mean? Can they be more specific in clarifying what constitutes trace amounts? Clearly, we all agree that there is some level of mercury which they advise against. Where is that line? We already took thimerosal out of childhood vaccines, we just need to take it out of flu shots too, and we can offer the same vaccines in single-dose shots which do not have thimerosal. Now, I will make you a bet.. I bet that taking thimerosal out of flu shots that we give to pregnant women will reduce the number of children afflicted with mercury poisoning, autism and other neurological disorders. If I am right, we will improve the health of one million kids/year and lower health care costs by hundreds of billions of dollars over the next decade. If I am wrong, well we are no worse off because pregnant women didnt get thimerosal, and so Im wrong. Ill buy you lunch. We found out that the Thimeresol would be toxic down to not grams, not mgs, not mcgs, but nano grams parts per billion which was almost unbelieveable. This was published in the American Journal Medical Society, in the New York Academy Sciences and in the Journal For the Chemical Speciality Manufactures Association and it didnt make wave, there wasnt even a ripple no one seemed to care. Dr Frank P Engley PhD Blue Ribbon Panel Member 1948 AMA meeting regarding Thimeresols concernsA top Clinton donor went straight to the top Clinton adviser and with the request that mercury be removed fromthe multi-dose flu vaccine, and that trace amounts of mercury be removed from all other vaccines. Why? Because she holds the money, she holds the power, and she knows that her message will go straight to the presidential candidate.Obviously she also knows that Hillary has all of the authority it takes to demand that pharmaceutical companies put the kibosh on vaccine mercury.Is Wendy Abrams on the inside track of vaccines and autism? It seems that she was a supporter of the Coalition for Mercury Free Drugs, who she gave $20,000 to in 2011. Ive dug around a little bit looking for links between her and vaccine providers but havent found anything; be sure to leave info in the comments if you know of something.By the way, I have it on good authority that Hillary has known all about the tragic damage caused by mercury in vaccines for decades, because some of the good people who fought to get mercury removed from the childhood schedule in the first place had numerous meetings with her at her own request. The contents of this email was not news to Hillary. It wasnt written to inform her of something that wasntalreadyon her radar. Coming from a PAC donor, it seems more like written documentation of a veiled order.Why is WikiLeaks giving us this email? Are there more to come? Lets hope.