Paul Offit, MD, is director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia. He has published more than 160 papers in medical and scientific journals in the areas of rotavirus-specific immune responses and vaccine safety. He spoke with Berkeley Wellness about why the anti-vaccine movement is so dangerous to public health.Roughly one to two percent of parents choose not to vaccinate their children at all. Between 10 and 20 percent delay or withhold certain vaccinations. What those numbers tell us is that many children are being put at risk of serious, preventable diseases.Of course. The best example is last years measles outbreak, which started in southern California and spread to 25 states and parts of Canada. Before that outbreak, there was a report by an investigative reporter named Gary Baum. He went from school to school in southern California and found that some elementary schools had vaccination rates less than 50 percent. He wrote an article predicting that this could become the epicenter of measles outbreak. He published it in whats not thought to be a classic medical journal, the Hollywood Reporter. And he was absolutely right. When you start seeing a fraying of herd immunity, you begin to see outbreaks, starting with the most contagious diseases. And thats exactly what weve seen: measles, mumps, and whooping cough outbreaks.Call it community immunity. If you get a high enough population of people immunized, then the virus or bacteria will no longer be able to spread. That number doesnt have to be 100 percent. We started to eliminate polio in this country once we got to about 70 percent. The percentage needed depends on the contagiousness of the virus or bacteria. When we fall short of that number, then you put children who cant be immunized at risk. About 500,000 people in the US cant be vaccinated. They may be on immune-suppressing therapy for chronic diseases, for example, or on chemotherapy for cancer. They depend on others to get vaccinated in order to be protected. California recently passed a law, SB-277, that eliminates all non-medical exemptions, including religious and philosophical exemptions. That law passed in part because a little six-year-old boy with leukemia, who couldnt be vaccinated, stood up at a meeting and said, What about me? I depend on the people around me to protect me.Partly because theyre no longer scared of these diseases, since we dont see much of them anymore. And often they get bad information from the Internet that makes them afraid of things they dont need to fear. In the case of measles, in 1998, a now-repudiated researcher named Andrew Wakefield published a paper linking measles vaccine to autism. There was no biological explanation and virtually no data. The paper should never have been published. But the media jumped all over it. The paper has since been retracted. But the fear it created still convinces people to make dangerous decisions for their children.Anecdotal evidence is a contradiction in terms. Its an emotional, personal experience, but it isnt evidence. My child was fine. My child got vaccinated and now my child is not fine. The vaccine did it. Thats not evidence. Let me give you an example. My wife is a physician in private practice. She was in the office helping the nurse give immunizations. While my wife was filling a syringe with vaccine, getting ready to give the inoculation, a four-month-old child in her mothers lap had a seizure and went on to have epilepsy. If my wife had given that vaccine 5 minutes earlier, the mother would have been convinced that the vaccine caused the seizure. You could present reams of scientific data showing that that particular vaccine doesnt increase the risk of seizures, but its hard to convince a mother who says, I saw what I saw.Its reasonable enough to ask if the vaccine was responsible. But thats an answerable question. You can do studies to find out. You look at large numbers of children who did or didnt get vaccinated and look at rates of autism. And when weve done those studies, theres no association between vaccination and autism. Thats real scientific evidence.Unfortunately, yes. In 1991, in Philadelphia, where I live, an outbreak of measles began that was centered around two fundamentalist churches that refused to vaccinate their children. Over the course of three months, there were 1400 cases of measles and nine deaths. The city was in a panic. It was a horrifying time. I wrote the book Bad Faith: When Religious Belief Undermines Modern Medicine, and especially a chapter called Do Unto Others, partly to exorcise the demons of that experience. The idea of a religious exemption not to vaccinate your child is the equivalent of a religious exemption to practice child abuse. How is it a religious act to expose your child to harm? It seems to me quite the opposite. Choosing not to get your child vaccinated is not a risk-free decision. Anyone who works in a large urban hospital, as I do, sees children die of vaccine-preventable diseases on a yearly basis. And its a terrible thing to see.