Hailed as one of the Ten Great Public Health Achievements in the 20th century by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), vaccines save an estimated 2.5 million lives every year from infectious diseases.As a result of vaccinations, diseases like diphtheria, once deadlier than cancer, have been drastically reduced, even eliminated. The benefits of vaccines are clear: Routine immunizations given to the 78.6 million children born in the U.S. over the past two decades will prevent 322 million illnesses, 21 million hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths over the course of their lifetimes, according to the CDC.Vaccines work thanks to innovations in biotechnology and chemistry. By introducing a modified or imitation version of a disease like polio or measles to a persons immune system, the body is able to recognize and fight off future exposure to the disease. As a result, vaccines work with the bodys natural defenses to help it develop immunity to disease.To ensure vaccine safety, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates the development, testing and licensing of the ingredients used in vaccines through a rigorous multiphase approval process that can take 10 or more years. Even after approving a vaccine, FDA continuously monitors its safety.Although vaccines are now commonplace and have proven effective at eliminating once deadly diseases, incorrect information can spread quickly through social media, leading to concerns about vaccines and their ingredients. Chemical ingredients are added to vaccines for a variety of purposes some are added to inactivate a virus or bacteria and stabilize the vaccine, while others are added to preserve the vaccine and prevent it from losing its potency over time.Heres some additional information about common vaccine ingredients that you may have questions:Aluminum additives are used in vaccines for viruses such as hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and diphtheria-tetanus-containing vaccines, among others. Health officials recommend these vaccines for babies and young children, which sometimes leads parents to question the safety of aluminum in the shots. However, babies already have a small naturally occurring amount of aluminum in their bloodstreams, about 5 nanograms (a nanogram is equal to one billionth of a gram) from infant formula or breast milk. The amount of aluminum in a vaccine is far below the amounts that babies are naturally exposed to. According to FDA, vaccines containing aluminum have a demonstrated safety profile based on more than six decades of use and are only rarely associated with negative reactions, such as skin irritation or swelling.Interested in learning more about chemicals and safety? Read about common chemical myths and facts here.