The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends giving every pregnant woman the tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (Tdap) vaccine.Infants are at the highest risk of a severe pertussis (whooping cough) infection. According to the CDC, in 2012, 16 children died from pertussis in the United States.Let me make one thing clear: Even one child dying from pertussis is a tragedy. We must do everything we can to prevent these infections in newborns.However, when trying to assess whether or not pregnant women should be immunized with the Tdap vaccine to prevent pertussis, two questions need to be answered:1. Can we decrease the small number of children who die from pertussis by vaccinating all pregnant women?2. Is the Tdap vaccine safe to give to pregnant women? I doubt that vaccinating every pregnant woman will make any change in the small number of children who die from pertussis.But there is a larger issue at stake with mass vaccinations, because over time the effects of the vaccine can wane. Before immunizations, a natural pertussis infection provided a much longer period of immunity. Many who got infected developed lifelong immunity to pertussis.The authorities claim that immunization is responsible for the dramatic fall in pertussis infections. That is simply not true. In fact, deaths from pertussis were rapidly declining before the vaccine was ever administered.As for the second question: In the November 17, 2014 issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association, there is an article about the adverse effects of the Tdap vaccine on pregnant women.The object of the study was to evaluate whether Tdap vaccination during pregnancy is associated with increased risks of adverse obstetric events or adverse birth outcomes.The researchers evaluated 26,229 women who received Tdap during their pregnancy and compared them to 97,265 who were not vaccinated. The study reported that the Tdap vaccine was not associated with increased risks of adverse birth outcomes such as preterm delivery, small for gestational age, and preterm delivery.That statement is not completely correct, as there was, in fact, a trend toward worse outcomes. Furthermore, there was a 19 percent increase in chorioamnionitis in women who received the Tdap vaccination.Chorioamnionitis is a potentially serious condition for both the mother and child. It can lead to sepsis, blood clots, meningitis, and the death of both mother and child.You might think that this finding would deter the use of the Tdap vaccination for pregnant women. However, that is not how things work today. There has been little mention of this finding anywhere.In this study, the majority of pregnant women were administered a Tdap vaccine that contains 0.33 mg of aluminum and 3.3 mg of 2-phenoxyethanol, as well as trace amounts of formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde.According to a May 16, 2011 report for the journal Current Medicinal Chemistry, aluminum-containing vaccines could be contributing to the rise of [autism-spectrum disorders] in the U.S. In fact, there is no therapeutic value of injecting aluminum into any living being. The other ingredient, 2-phenoxyenthanol, is an antimicrobial agent. But it is also a reproductive and ovarian toxin.In 2008, the FDA made a press announcement warning consumers to avoid Mommys Bliss Nipple Cream because of toxicity concerns about children ingesting 2-phenoxyethanol.So apparently its okay to inject this substance into pregnant women, but newborns shouldnt ingest it? That makes absolutely no sense.Formaldehyde is a known carcinogen and glutaraldehyde is a toxic chemical that is used for cold sterilization of medical and dental equipment. Neither chemical is safe to inject into any living being.Is Tdap safe for pregnant women? I dont think you need an advanced degree to answer that question you just need to know what is actually in the vaccine.We should not be injecting pregnant women with toxic substances. Our kids are already suffering enough 1 in 68 currently have autism.I have no doubt this epidemic is being driven, in large part, by the increased toxic load fetuses are being exposed to, including toxic vaccine ingredients.