Important Note: The influenza dates are not listed (i.e., 2015-16) at the top of these VISs. These VISs may be used for this and future years, until there is a significant change in flu recommendations that will require changing them.A Vaccine Information Statement (VIS) is a one-page,two-sided,information sheet, produced by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). VIS inform vaccine recipients - or their parents or legal representatives - about the benefits and risks of a vaccine.Federal lawrequires that VIS be given out whenever certain vaccinations are given. The VIS must be given out at the time of each vaccination - prior to administration of the vaccine. TheImportant VIS Facts handoutincludes a table with all the most recent published dates of the Vaccine Information Statements. It is important to use only themost up-to-date versions of the VIS. Whenusing VIS that have been translated to foreign languages, it is not always possible to use the most up-to-date versions.When the foreign language VIS is not the most current version, parents should also be given the current English version.In Michigan, it isimportant thatvaccine recipients, their parents, or their legal representatives be given the Michigan versions of VIS because they include information about theMichigan Care Improvement Registry(MCIR). By state law in Michigan, parents must be informed about MCIR. Vaccine Information Statementsthat are obtained from other sources (e.g., from the CDC or IAC websites) do not contain information about MCIR.The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS)makes multiple copies of most of the Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) available to local health departments, with two exceptions.MDHHS does not provide multiple copies of influenza VIS orforeign language VIS. With thoseexceptions, providers can order copies of the VIS through theirlocal health departmentsfree of charge.For more information about the use of Vaccine Information Statementsin Michigan, see the .The revisiondate is located on the back of each VIS towards the bottom. Be sure your clinic or office is using only the most current VIS.When you receive an updated version, please discard all outdated VIS immediately. It isimportant to distribute only the most up-to-date Vaccine Information Statements. TheImportant VIS Facts handout lists the revision dates of the most current VIS.Vaccine Information Statements (VIS) are available in many languages (see list below).When providers need VIS in additional languages, it is important to obtain them from the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, because the Michigan versions include information about the Michigan Care Improvement Registry (MCIR).Ifyou are in need of a translation that has notbeen posted on this website, please call the MDHHS Division of Immunization at 517-335-8159.When the foreign language VIS is not the most current version, the parent or patient should also be given the current English version.When the foreign language VIS is not the most current version, the parent or patient should also be given the current English version.