I love picking on the Autism Science Foundation because I believe history will show them to be one of the primary enablers of the autism epidemic with their unqualified support for all this distracting research. Founded by a former Autism Speaks employee and with Dr. Paul Offit on their board, the ASF been ardent supporters of the Scream, Yell, and Repeat strategy detailed above, and Dr. Paul Offit appears to be the architect of the manufactured doubt that has served to ice legitimate vaccine-autism research from being done.On the ASF website, the organization cites 36 studies as the overwhelming body of evidence that proves vaccines do not cause autism. As the ASF asserts:As always, the devil is in the details. Id go through all 36 studies, but I know Id lose most of my readers, so Im just going to pick on five of the studies for now, five studies the ASF cites as proof that vaccines do not cause autism, five studies that I would argue are nothing more than manufactured doubt and distracting research done to muddy the waters and waste time:Neuropsychological Performance 10 Years After Immunization in Infancy With Thimerosal-Containing Vaccines Pediatrics, Tozzi AE, Bisiacchi P, Tarantino V, De Mei B, DElia L, Chariotti F, Salmaso S. (January 2009)Headline: Every child in this study was vaccinated, and the only comparison is more and less mercury in their shots, and the sample size is so tiny they had an autism rate in their study of 1 in 1,700.First detail: Therefore, in the first 12 months of life, the cumulative intake of ethylmercury, the mercury metabolite of thimerosal, was 137.5 mcg for the children who were assigned randomly to receive the DTaP vaccine that contained thimerosal (higher intake group) and 62.5 mcg for those who received the thimerosal-free DTaP vaccine (lower intake group).What does this mean? This study is only comparing kids who got 62.5mcgs of Thimerosal to kids who got 137.5mcgs of Thimerosal. They have all been vaccinated, and theyve all been vaccinated with mercury-containing vaccines. And, heres the sample size:We detected, through the telephone interviews with parents and reviews of medical charts, 1 case of autism among the 856 children in the lower thimerosal intake group and no cases among the 848 children in the higher thimerosal intake group.So, in their sample, the rate of autism of the children analyzed was 1 in 1,704, 1520 times lower than the US average. This study truly shows us nothing, its pathetic and embarrassing, and heres a doctor who agrees, Dr. Vincenzo Miranda of Italy (where the study is from):This study is not methodologically correct. The study by Tozzi and others has many limitations. No comparison is done with children not exposed to thimerosal and neuropsychological disturbances are studied in recruiting voluntary all children even healthy ones, without assessing the sensitivity individual mercury. With this background this study can not lead to any conclusion. It is possible to evaluate the role of vaccines and thimerosal in neurodevelopmental disorders with the study of immune response. In my case I found a hyperimmune response to measles, polio with autoimmune reaction against myelin and glia. Moreover, the presence of antifibrillarin antibodies indicates an autoimmune response induced by mercury (HgIA). All this can not be a coincidence.This study was so frustrating, I wrote an article about it for the Age of Autism blog HERE. When this study came out, the headline in every newspaper implied more proof had been published that vaccines dont cause autism. Oh, and it was funded by the CDC, of course.Early Thimerosal Exposure and Neuropsychological Outcomes at 7 to 10 Years New England Journal of Medicine, Thompson WW [this is the CDC Whistleblower!!], Price C, Goodson B, et al. (September, 2007)Headline: Every child in this study was vaccinated. They didnt even consider AUTISM as an outcome, so why is it on here? And, the CDC Whistleblower is a co-author!Wins award for most conflicts with seven different vaccine companies mentioned. But, this study doesnt even look at autism as an outcome, so it doesnt apply to the vaccine-autism debate at all. Had a panel member dissent from study conclusions, a bad sign. May be interesting to some, but not anyone studying autism.Just for fun, heres the conflicts section:Dr. Thompson reports being a former employee of Merck; Dr. Marcy, receiving consulting fees from Merck, Sanofi Pasteur, GlaxoSmithKline, and MedImmune; Dr. Jackson, receiving grant support from Wyeth, Sanofi Pasteur, GlaxoSmithKline, and Novartis, lecture fees from Sanofi Pasteur, and consulting fees from Wyeth and Abbott and serving as a consultant to the FDA Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee; Dr. Lieu, serving as a consultant to the CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices; Dr. Black, receiving consulting fees from MedImmune, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, and Merck and grant support from MedImmune, GlaxoSmithKline, Aventis, Merck, and Novartis; and Dr. Davis receiving consulting fees from Merck and grant support from Merck and GlaxoSmith- Kline. No other potential conflict of interest relevant to this article was reported.Heres a commentary on the study from Autism Speaks: While the study does not specifically examine the link between thimerosal and autism spectrum disorders, it does explore neuropsychological functioning, such as language development, attention, and fine motor coordination, that are affected in some individuals with autism.To put this on a website as an example of studies showing no link between autism and vaccines is just a giant lie.Thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders: a prospective cohort study in the United kingdom does not support a causal association Pediatrics, John Heron and Nick Andrews, PhD and Jean Golding, DSc (September 2004)Headline: This may be the worst study ever done. Every kid in the study got the same vaccines, so the study only considered timing differences (when someone got their DTP shot, was it 2 months, 3 months, or 4 months old?). Wins award for most dishonest title, too.Choice Excerpt from the Study: The age at which doses of thimerosal-containing vaccines were administered was recorded, and measures of mercury exposure by 3, 4, and 6 months of age were calculated and compared with a number of measures of childhood cognitive and behavioral development covering the period from 6 to 91 months of age.Meaning: Every kid in our study got the same vaccines, and we only considered the difference of WHEN they got them. Huh?Headline: Only looked at vaccinated kids. Only looked at more or less thimerosal exposure (more or less smoking). Worst of all, the study produced a NEUTRAL outcome, meaning it couldnt prove or disprove anything. The conclusion of the study was a tie, like a soccer game with no winner!!This is the most widely quoted study, and the only study ever done with American data on American children (the CDC has buried this data ever since), and it reached a neutral conclusion, asked the wrong question, and the author left to join a vaccine company before its publication. And, the worlds most incriminating and public secret meeting calls the entire study into question (see: Simpsonwood). The former CDC Director called this study unhelpful and potentially misleading.The biological plausibility of the small doses of ethylmercury present in vaccines leading to increased risks of neurodevelopmental disorders is uncertain.Incredibly, the study authorDr. Thomas Verstraetenwent on to assert in an unprecedented letter to Pediatrics that his conclusions were being misrepresented:CDC Director Dr. Julie Gerberding has delivered a potentially explosive report to the powerful House Appropriations Committee, in which she admits to a startling string of errors in the design and methods used in the CDCs landmark 2003 study that found no link between mercury in vaccines and autism, ADHD, speech delay or tics.- CDC: Vaccine Study Design Uninformative and Potentially Misleading By David Kirby, The Huffington Post.Its hard to make this point strongly enough: the Verstraeten study is the most widely cited study proving vaccines do NOT cause Autism, and no free-thinking individual could possibly believe thats what it did after reading the above. Just to pour kerosene on the fire, heres quote from one of Dr. Verstraetens internal emails:Unfortunately, I have witnessed how many experts, looking at this thimerosal issue, do not seem bothered to compare apples to pears at the best and insist that if nothing is happening in these studies [referring to some old science on other types of mercury exposure] then nothing should be feared of thimerosal. I do not wish to be the advocate of the anti-vaccine lobby and sound like being convinced that thimerosal is or was harmful, but at least I feel we should use sound scientific argumentation and not let our standards be dictated by our desire to disprove an unpleasant theory.Thimerosal and the occurrence of autism: negative ecological evidence from Danish population-based data. Pediatrics, Kreesten M. Madsen, MD, Poul Thorsen [wanted by the US Government] (September 2003)Headline: The first Danish study, reached a conclusion based largely on one statistical trick. Every child in this study was vaccinated. Oh, and one of the lead authors is wanted by the Feds for embezzling several million dollars from the CDC, but why should that be news (see above)?Written by a Danish vaccine company, the study made a mockery of the data, a problem the authors themselves warned of. And, the CDC engineered the entire study. This one goes beyond useless, it was fraudulent to run the numbers this way, and they knew it.The study only considered 956 children with autism. Worse, a material change in how autism data is obtained happened right around the time the numbers of autism cases seemed to grow, rendering the data meaningless. From PutChildrenFirst:SafeMinds noted, Therefore, their purported increase after 1994 can be explained entirely by the registration of an existing autism population that did not require hospitalization. To compound the problem, Denmark also changed the diagnostic code they used, to the more universal ICD10 code, beginning in 1993, which would have further raised the rates.Also, outpatient activities were included in the Danish Psychiatric Central Research Register in 1995 and because many patients with autism in former years have been treated as outpatients this may exaggerate the incidence rates, simply because a number of patients attending the child psychiatric treatment system before 1995 were recorded for the first time, and thereby counted as new cases in the incidence rates.Meaning: we didnt count 93% of the kids diagnosed with autism in Denmark during the time mercury was in vaccines, then we did once it was removed. Really, thats what they did.