The Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program is intended to help raise childhood immunization levels in the United States, especially infants and young children. This effort requires wide participation and collaboration of private healthcare providers to reach children who might not otherwise receive vaccine because of financial barriers or who might receive vaccines late because they would be referred to another setting for free vaccines.This federally funded program supplies vaccine free of charge to participating providers. The vaccine may then be made available to children up to 19 years of age who are:Your practice may also see children enrolled in the PeachCare for Kids Program, which is administered by the Department of Community Health (DCH). While a child enrolled in the PeachCare for Kids Program is fully insured, your office will use state-supplied vaccine for these children. All claims for vaccines administered to PeachCare for Kids participants will be filed and reimbursed through either DCH or its contracted Care Management Organizations (CMOs). The VFC Program allows providers to immunize eligible children for a nominal administration fee. The maximum administration fee a provider may charge is $21.93 per injection. Providers may also charge an office visit fee.The deadline for the 2015 VFC Influenza Pre-Book has passed. If you missed the deadline, you may submit your wait list request via the link below:This survey should only be completed by providers who did not submit a request prior to the February 16th deadline but wish to receive influenza vaccines for this upcoming season. Submissions to this survey will be added to our 2015-2016 VFC Influenza Vaccine Wait List.Fulfillment of wait listed requests will begin after all pre-booked requests have been satisfied or supply for 100% of pre-booked requests has been secured. Wait Listed requests will be fulfilled according to vaccine availability. VFC cannot guarantee 100% fulfillment of all wait listed requests. Please be sure to use previous years doses administered and billing data to determine vaccine estimates you will need to vaccinate your VFC and PeachCare eligible children 0 through 18 years of age during the upcoming flu season.Please submit one pre-book per clinic location. Verify your VFC PIN, contact name and e-mail address are correct, prior to submitting your survey. Incomplete surveys will be discarded. Clinics who successfully complete the survey will receive a confirmation e-mail once your responses have been reviewed and accepted.If you have questions, please contact the VFC Program at (404) 657- 5013 or outside of metro Atlanta area at (800) 848-3868All staff responsible for managing state supplied vaccine were required to complete 2 online training modules by December 31, 2014. As of today, several sites have not completed this requirement. If you are a primary or secondary contact and you have not completed the course, please do so ASAP. Once complete, scan or fax a copy of your completion certificate and be sure to include your VFC PIN# on the certificate to receive credit for completion of the course. Click on the link below to access the modules:OrKeys to Storing and Handling Your Vaccine Supplyhttp://www2.cdc.gov/vaccines/ed/shvideo/As of Friday, February 13, all VFC providers should have completed the GRITS Manage Orders online training module and submitted an email request for new GRITS login credentials which grants access to the new manage orders function for placing orders online. The new mange orders function replaces phone calls and email requests to place vaccine orders and is now mandatory for all enrolled sites. See latest VFC update information posted below or on the GRITS announcement's page.