Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) represents a family of very common viruses that are passed on during sex. Most people will get HPV infection in their lifetime and it usually clears up by itself. If you smoke, it can prevent the infection from clearing up. Some form of the virus can also cause genital warts.For women, ongoing HPV infections can cause abnormal changes in the lining of the cervix. These changes, if left untreated, can lead to cervical cancer. Most cervical cancers are caused by the HPV Virus. HPV has also been strongly linked to a number of other cancers in men and women including cancers of the anus, throat, mouth, tongue, tonsil, vagina and penis.A small number of women have difficulty getting rid of the HPV virus. This may happen if you smoke. Ongoing HPV infections can cause abnormal changes in the cells lining the cervix. These abnormal changes in the cells are known as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The only way that these changes can be found is by doing a smear test. These cells are not cancerous but are called precancerous because if left untreated for a number of years they can develop into cancer.The vaccine works in the same way as other vaccines. The body reacts by making special proteins, called antibodies, which help the immune system fight and clear the HPV infection so it cant cause cancer.The vaccine works best for girls who have not been exposed to the virus through sexual activity although HPV vaccine can also be given to older girls and women up to 26 years of age.In Ireland, the HPV vaccine is offered free of charge to all girls in their 1st year of second level schools. The vaccine is given through injection into the upper part of the arm in two doses, six months apart, via a school based programme, to ensure high vaccine uptake. However, in specific instances some girls will be invited to special HSE clinics for their vaccines. The vaccine can also be given to boys and in some countries is given to both genders to reduce the risks of several types of cancer.Yes. The vaccine against HPV reduces your risk of cervical cancer but does not remove it. So it is important that all women, aged 25 to 60, continue to have regular cervical smear tests. Before having the vaccine, discuss this with your GP. All women, aged 25 to 60, should continue to have cervical screening. In Ireland, a national cervical screening programme began in 2008 called CervicalCheck. The Government funds this programme and provides free smear tests to women aged 25 to 60. You can choose to have a free smear test from any smeartaker (doctor or nurse) registered with CervicalCheck. For more details about this service in your area, contact CervicalCheck at 1800 45 45 55 or visit www.cervicalcheck.ie.The HPV vaccination programme is safe. HPV causes a number of cancers in men and women, in particular, cervical cancer. Cervical cancer can be prevented through the HPV vaccination by reducing the risk of infection by HPV strains known to cause this and other forms of cancer. Research by multiple independent, international experts analysing the 80 million vaccinations administered to date has found no difference in the rates of serious illnesses between vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals. Two vaccines are licensed to prevent HPV infections: GardasilTM and CervarixTM. These vaccines are licensed by the Health Products Regulatory Authority and the European Medicines Agency. These agencies have strict procedures for the licensing and monitoring of all vaccines to ensure their safety and effectiveness Similar to all vaccines some effects can occur in people getting the injection. These can include pain from the needle, some redness, swelling or itchiness on the arm where the injection is given. Very occasionally, the person getting the vaccine can have a mild headache, feel a bit tired or sick. If these effects do occur, they pass quite quickly. Over 200 million doses of Gardasil have been distributed worldwide, either as part of national immunisation programmes or by private doctors. Gardasil is currently used in over 25 European countries, the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. In Ireland 580,000 doses of Gardasil have been administered and over 200,000 girls have been fully vaccinated against HPV. The World Health Organization Global Advisory Committee for Vaccine Safety (GACVS) has reviewed the evidence on the safety of Gardasil vaccine. The WHO concluded in December 2015 that Gardasil continues to have an excellent safety profile. Further information can be found here. In November 2015 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) reported on a review of HPV vaccines. This report found no evidence the vaccine was linked to chronic fatigue like conditions.Yes - HPV vaccines have also been shown to be effective in preventing infection in men. Some countries, for example Australia and the United States, recommend routine vaccination for boys. This is not recommended as part of the school programme in Ireland at present. If you wish to get your son vaccinated you will need to pay for the vaccine and the administration of the vaccine privately with your doctor. The vaccination of teenage boys increases the preventative effects of the vaccine against other cancers, such as anal cancer, where HPV infection can be associated and also prevents HPV-vaccinated boys passing the infection to unvaccinated partners.You may find our booklets helpful Understanding Smear Test Results and Cervical cancer What you should know.