The information provided in this post is for information purposes only and should not be construed as medical advice. It is not a substitute for your doctor's care plan or advice.We've tried many natural methodsto heal our son's autism and anxiety, and we've seen some natural healing from our efforts, but one of the puzzles that I wonder about is the relationship between vaccines and autism.Vaccines and autism are two hot topics today.I personally used to think nothing about vaccines. Every kid just gets 'em, right?In fact, I used to think nothing about a lot of things.All that changed with the birth of my first son And it didn't stop there.I used to think that:3. Food allergies and special diets were just people's way of trying to go on a diet and be thin.Then my son got life threatening food allergies, and now there aresome foods that I can't tolerate.4. Alternative therapies like chiropractic, homeopathy, essential oils etc., were just quackery.I've now used chiropractic extensively, am consulting with a homeopath, and use essential oils all the times.Now, I don't purport to know everything about vaccines, nor everything about autism.But I will share with you the truth about what happened to our son as it related to his vaccines and his autism so you can learn a little more about us. About one part of our health journey and it might get you thinking about vaccines yourself. My oldest son was born 11 years ago at home, under the care of a very special doctor in Illinois, Dr. George Elvove.I didn't seek out a home birth doctor but I ended up with one. That's the topic of another post :-).Dr. Elvove was special in many ways. He was one of only two doctors whom I found in Illinois who would deliver a baby at home.And I think he saved us untold misery in our son's life.My son was a pretty big baby and his delivery was nothing short of horrible. Almost impossible, in fact.But we did it. (This is also a topic for another posthome birth and all that)At first, after he was born, things were pretty smooth. My baby nursed well, and he was the highlight of my lifebut things soon changed.He started sleeping horribly, waking every 30 minutes, and after 10 of those 30 minute stretches (think total of 5 hours of sleep :-(), he was up.Then, he was diagnosed with life-threatening food allergies.Our pediatrician wisely told us that we had a very sensitive child and that we should proceed slowly with vaccinations.So we did.He got the HIB. And that was about it. Maybe one or two more. But nothing else.Our son grew, but gradually his peculiarities became evident.He was described as:Those things were endearing, (except for the intense part at times), but there were other things that seemed out of sorts.I brought all of these things up to several physicians, but no one thought we were dealing with autism.Then at 6 years of age, everything changed.Around our son's fifth birthday, we started getting pressure from our new pediatrician (in Michigan) to move ahead with the vaccinations. (This was the same physician who didn't want to give me a referral to on oral surgeon when it seemed apparent that my son had a recurrent near fatal condition from a mercury filling. See why I switched doctors?)My husband and I read different articles and talked with friends at church and came to the conclusion that perhaps we were being scared for no reason and that we should move forward with the recommended vaccine schedule.The mainstream medical community just thinks that it's a coincidence.I'd read a lot of books and articles about the supposed links between autism and vaccines, but I felt that perhaps I was worrying about nothing.Surely all of these new autism diagnoses were just doctors over-diagnosing, right? Surely they just wanted to prescribe drugs and make money somehow.But then again, Dr. Elvove's partner said that she thought there might be something to it. She had been a vaccine / autism link skeptic, but said that she wasn't so sure anymore.Just too many parents had seen their children take a dramatic turn for the worse after an onslaught of vaccines particularly the MMR.Well, anyway, since we were well passed age 2, we thought that surely our son was old enough to handle a few shots now, right?Tomorrow, I will share with you Part Two of Did Vaccines Cause My Son's Autism.It'll get you thinking Just like it did me.In the meantime, if you'd like to read more about our journey with autism, you might wish to read:And here's a good book to consider regarding autism, etc.: (Please note there areaffiliate links in this post. If you make a purchase after clicking on them I might make a commission your support is much appreciated and helps keep this free resource up and running.Dr. Bock presents his hypothesis of the relation between a number of pervasive childhood disorders. The end of the book includes a suggested scaled back vaccine schedule for those wishing to vaccinate, but wanting to be cautious in their approach to vaccinations.Another that is lauded in the natural autism community is:I personally think that the vaccines were too much for him and that they threw him over the edge.