On September 11, 2014, Dr. Ozs guests included Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. and Dr. Mark Hyman and the topic of discussion was thimerosal in flu vaccines. It is great to see Dr. Oz expressing concerns about thimerosal, which is 49.5% mercury and is a potent neuro-immune toxin.Dr. Oz advised his audience that pregnant women and parents of children should request thimerosal-free flu shots so they can avoid injecting mercury into their bodies.You can view the video clips here (Part 1) and here (Part 2).There is a recap here, which is pretty good. In short, all three men agreed thimerosal in vaccines is a very bad idea. All three agreed it should be removed completely, not only from vaccines, but from ALL medical products. Period.While I appreciate the effort, there were several inaccuracies in the show, which need to be cleared up.1. Contrary to the assertions of Oz, Hyman, and Kennedy, thimerosal has not been removed from childhood vaccinations; its still there. The FDA changed the rules so vaccine manufacturers do not have to include thimerosal on the label as an ingredient unless it is used as a preservative. According to the FDA, if thimerosal is used in the manufacturing process but it is not used as a preservative, the vaccine can be labeled thimerosal-free when that is not the case. You can read more about this semantic trickery and what it really means for your child here. The point is, several vaccines given to infants and children still contain thimerosal, including the DTaP vaccine, DT vaccine, Hib (ACTHib, TriHIBit) and Meningococcal vaccine. Click this link and scroll down in the vaccine excipients list until you get to thimerosal. (On your way to thimerosal, you might want to also notice all the other toxic ingredients and the vaccines that contain them.)2. In addition to the problems with the FDA rule change, which allows vaccine-manufacturers to lie about the fact that their vaccines still contain thimerosal, Dr. Oz and his guests missed the fact that the meningococcal vaccine given to children age two years and older contains the same amount of thimerosal (50 mcg.) as the multi-dose flu shots they are so concerned about. Click this link and go to section 11, on page 17 of the Menomune manufacturers insert.3. Another GLARING inaccuracy from Thursdays Dr. Oz show was the graphic shown on the screen (Part 1, at 2:30) stating that in 1999 thimerosal was taken out of the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine. This was a face-palm moment. Really? Dr. OZ!!! You are the most trusted television doctor in the United States and people listen to you! Its important for you to get your facts straight. This is VACCINE INFO 101: The MMR Vaccine (measles, mumps, rubella) does not now and NEVER HAS CONTAINED THIMEROSAL!!! The MMR is a live virus vaccine and thimerosal would kill the viruses. Got it? What MMR and other live virus vaccines like the chickenpox vaccine and the shingles vaccine DO CONTAIN is the DNA from aborted human fetal tissue. Independent laboratories (conducting research that is not funded by the makers of the vaccines) have found that these vaccines are associated with autism genes in the brain; particularly with those affecting the synapse (which is responsible for processing of information). Research indicates the recombinant homologous DNA from aborted fetuses (their cells are used to grow the live viruses) basically recombines with the DNA of the recipient child and this results in an autoimmune attack on specific brain proteins. This should be another face-palm moment. When you think about autoimmunity, what is it? In laymans terms, Autoimmunity is when the body gets confused about self and other, and it starts to attack its own tissues. What better way to induce autoimmunity than to inject the DNA of another human being into your body? Click this link to read the study.4. As noted above, Dr. Ozs only concern about the flu vaccine appears to be that it contains thimerosal. He went on to advise pregnant women to ask for thimerosal-free vaccines. What he didnt tell his audience is thatThe CDCs advisory committee on immunization practices, or the ACIPs recommendation for ANY flu vaccine in pregnancy was not supported by their own research. The research on administration of flu vaccine (with or without thimerosal) indicates that NO Flu vaccine should be given to pregnant women. Period.**Click here to read the paper.5. Thimerosal is a toxic metal. It has no place in vaccines injected into pregnant women, infants, and children. This was the sole focus of this limited discussion, which was full of inaccuracies and omissions. One important omission is this: Aluminum is a toxic metal which also causes widespread neurological and immunological damage. It has no place in vaccines injected into pregnant women, infants and children. Aluminumis present in MANY vaccines given to infants and children at levels greatly exceeding the FDA limits for other injectable medications. Click here to learn about aluminum and how to know how much is in vaccines given to your child.If you would like to know more about the ingredients in vaccines, please read Vaccine Ingredients A Comprehensive Guide.If you would like to learn more about the flu vaccine, please read The Flu Vaccine: What Your Doctor Wont Tell You (Or Probably Doesnt Even Know)**I have edited issue number 4, due to an error in the original post of this article, in which I incorrectly stated that the ACIP did not recommend flu shots (regardless of whether or not they contain thimerosal) for pregnant women. I apologize for the error and appreciate the reader who pointed it out.