There is absolutely undeniable scientific proof that vaccines cause autism. There is no question! Case closed! Game over!The people and the mainstream media who claim that the vaccine autism link has been thoroughly debunked are all bought and paid for by the vaccine industry. They are lying and being paid to do it! And anyone who speaks against them gets royally defamed and defaced by the vaccine industry controlled media.Andrew Wakefields colleague who co-authored the MMR study that linked the MMR vaccine to autism, has been exonerated and his studies have been confirmed.Justice Mitting, reviewing Dr. Walker-Smiths appeal in the High Court of Justice, Queens Bench Division, Administrative Court, found that the GMCs conclusions were based on inadequate and superficial reasoning and that the finding of serious professional misconduct and the sanction of erasure are both quashed.See full text of the decision.Dr. Walker-Smiths professional insurance coverage paid for his appeal; Dr. Wakefields insurance carrier would not.Dr. Wakefield has recently filed a defamation lawsuit in Texas against theBritish Medical Journal, Dr. Fiona Godlee, Editor-in-Chief, and journalist Brian Deer, who instigated the GMC prosecution. His lawsuit alleges that the defendants knowingly or recklessly engaged in fraudulent misrepresentations about 1998Lancetstudy. While far from decisive, the Mitting ruling bodes well for Dr. Wakefields defamation action.Read more hereA CDC whistleblower recently admitted that he was forced to withhold vital information from the CDCs findings on autism.CDC Whistleblower admits that the MMR causes autismFurthermore, there are literally hundreds of independent studies that prove vaccines cause autism. Here are some links to studies that are undeniable. Pro-vaxxers eyes seem to gloss over as they see all this proof and they start criticizing the source and everything to keep from seeing the truth! WAKE UP! Vaccines DO cause autism!3. MMR antibodies are significantly higher in autistic children as compared to normal children, supporting a role of MMR in autism.4.The history of vaccinations in the light of the autism epidemic.5.A careful review of ASD cases discloses a number of events that adhere to an immunoexcitotoxic mechanism. This mechanism explains the link between excessive vaccination, use of aluminum and ethylmercury as vaccine adjuvants, food allergies, gut dysbiosis, and abnormal formation of the developing brain.6. The relative toxicity of compounds used as preservatives in vaccines and biologics8. Polish Study Confirms Vaccines Can Cause Large Number of Adverse Effects including Autism9. Key Realities about Autism, Vaccines, Vaccine-injury Compensation,Thimerosal, and Autism-related Research. By Paul G. Kinga, PhD, Gary S. Goldmanb, PhD, a Science Advisor, CoMeD, Inc. From Medical Veritas 5 (2008) 1610164410. Thimerosal in Childhood Vaccines, Neurodevelopment Disorders, and Heart Disease in the United States11.A case series of children with apparent mercury toxic encephalopathies manifesting with clinical symptoms of regressive autistic disorders.