Ive gotten to be pretty familiar with the subject. You know, I have a theory and its a theory that some people believe in and thats the vaccinations. We never had anything like this. This is now an epidemic. Its way, way up over the past 10 years. Its way up over the past two years. And, you know, when you take a little baby that weighs like 12 pounds into a doctors office and they pump them with many, many simultaneous vaccinations Im all for vaccinations, but I think when you add all of these vaccinations together and then two months later the baby is so different then lots of different things have happened. I really Ive known cases. Donald TrumpWelcome back toFoiling Fallacies theseries where Iexplore the red herrings and straw menthat are brought up to derail debates. These anecdotes represent such rare possibilities or exceptions that simplybringing them up is a logical fallacy and causes science lovers like me to mutter for fucks sake, like I did when I read the Trump quote above.Today, I examinethe vaccine-injured child (not literally, as I do not have one in my vicinity). It seems like every anti-vaccination advocate or zealot either has or knows a child who was harmed by vaccines or who they believe was harmed by vaccines. Before you jump inwith your personal anecdotes, let me assure you that I understand that vaccine injuries occur and can be serious and that for the children and families who are impacted, these injuries arehorrible. In fact, one of my closest friends had a severe allergic reaction to a vaccine as a child. However, despite how terrible vaccine injuries are when they actually occur, they are not prevalent enough to make the risk of an injury a reason to not vaccinate your children or toargue against the safety and efficacy of vaccines for the population as a whole.Because vaccine injuries are rare and the idea of a hurt or sick child is so emotionally charged, bringing them up is not only an anecdote, but often also an appeal to emotion, a red herring, and naturalist fallacy. Its like fallacy soup, peppered withemotional manipulation and served with a side of fear. To make matters worse, celebrities, including Dr. Bob Sears (who should fucking know better), Jenny McCarthy, and Donald Trump, to name a few, chant the chorus:We just dont know what mighthappen. Do you really want to take the risk with your child? [Cue ominous music]Its normal to be concerned or even alarmed when you hear about anadorable baby transforming from perfect to damaged especially if you are a new parent or expecting your first child. Baby Chriswas perfectly normal until they got their measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine. A day, a week, or a month after their shotsomething seemed wrong. They gota fever, got sick, started having behavioral issues, died, orworst of all, gotautism. (This is sarcasm I dont think that autism is a fate worse than death, and anti-vaccination advocates shouldnt either!)What these examples dont mention or perhaps what these individuals dont understand is 1.) correlationdoes not equalcausation, 2.) the age when a child receives the MMR vaccine is a time of significant growth and development and a time when the markers and symptoms of autism and other conditions manifest. Although countlessstudieshave shown again and again that there is no link between vaccine and autism (or vaccines and any severe reaction for that matter),thebelief persists. And after hearing these stories and anecdotes every time vaccines are discussed, for some parents, itbecomes a risk theyd rather not take with their children.Research examining why people dont vaccinate their kids reveals that many people who dont vaccinate avoid it because they have a lack of confidence confidence in vaccines, in health care providers, and in the systems that promote vaccination. Anecdotes about vaccine injuries can cause an individualsconfidence to waver or if they are already anti-vax, cause a serious case of confirmation bias,and evenwhenthere is clear evidence to the contrary, many people still believe (or fear) that there is a link to autism or other risks to vaccination. The public health system can address other barriers to vaccination, like awareness and access. They can provide more information about research and risk to people who are weighing pros and cons, but its hard, if not impossible, to change the mind of someone who doesnt trust what sciencesays, because they lack confidence vaccines, their doctor, or the government.And although we are now seeing deaths fromvaccine preventable illnesses, the risk of measles or pertussis or hepatitis B seems like a chance you are willing to take, because you believe that the risk of harm from the vaccine is greater, and you dont trust the people (doctors and researchers) and systems (CDC, FDA, Health Department) that present the information that can prove otherwise. And, after all, your special snowflake will not go to daycare, public school, or ride public transportation,youll breastfeedand boost their immune system and cultivate their gut biome by giving them probiotics.But in reality, none of this will perfectly protect your child, not even close to what vaccines can do (and it will do nothing for the people who cant be vaccinated, you selfish fuck).There are the extremely sad cases of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) that grieving parents are sure were caused by vaccinations. Heartbreaking, but correlation, not causation. Research evidence shows no connection between childhood vaccines and SIDS other than timing. These examples represent our worst fears as parents, but when you look at the evidence and allow yourself to do a real risk analysis, the thought of deadlychildhood diseases coming back should be way scarier.Then, there areongoing reportsabout the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine Gardasil. The vaccine has been blamed for a variety of conditions, includingLyme disease, infertility, Guillain-Barr syndrome, and death. Again, the clinical research prior to and since the vaccine came on the market has been significant and over80 million doses of thevaccine have beenadministered in the United States with relatively few reported injuries. All safety research seems to find the same conclusion, the rates of these health conditions do not differ between vaccinated and unvaccinated populations. An analysis of reports of vaccine-related deaths made to theVaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) shows no connection between the reported deaths and the vaccine. In fact, several of the deaths reported to the system were due toother causes altogether, including motor vehicle accidents and suicide.People fail to recognize that the VAERSsystem is just a reporting system and not a verification system. In fact, an analysisof reports made to the system regarding a variety of vaccines showed that only 3% were found to bedefinitely causally related to vaccine received, and over 53% of reports were found to be unlikely or unrelated to avaccine. And while VAERS staff follow-up on all serious adverse event reports to obtain additional medical, laboratory, and/or autopsy records to help understand the concern raised, numbers and conditions in the system do not reflect data collected during the follow-up processes. But the drama of the personal anecdote thepicture of ayoung womannow in a wheelchair following her Gardasil vaccine shuts down the science.And what about the side effects and adverse reactions that can be linked with vaccines? Things like fevers, lethargy, pain at the injection site? Not even close to as scary or damaging as a vaccine-preventable illness. And yes, serious reactions do happen.Reporting vaccine reactions is important. Its important that the CDC follow-up on even the most rare and unlikely reactions and that safety research be ongoing and improvements be made. Important discoveries have been made about the oral polio and rotavirus vaccines through this type of reporting that have allowed scientiststo make vaccines safer. The tricky part is investigating these concerns quickly before trust is lost, because once that happens, years and countless studies wont be enough to trump the anecdotes and fear.Its difficultto challenge upset parents, especially thosewho areconvinced that vaccines harmed their children. What kind of bitch would do such a thing? I would.Because I think of the thousands, if not millions, of children who would die if it were not for vaccines, and I love science.So, how do I respond?With empathy, but also with logic and reason:Of course, if this is Donald Trump speaking or someone claiming second-or third-hand knowledge of avaccine-injured child or citing an Mercola article or David Avocado meme, I advocate calling them out on their bullshit. Stupidity and fear-mongering doesnt deserve empathy. You might even start your commentwith, for fucks sake,