The FDA recommends getting the shingles vaccine if you are 60 years old or older. Its very rare to experience any severe side effects from the shingle vaccine. Shingles is a painful rash thats caused by varicella zoster, the same virus thats responsible for chickenpox. If you had chickenpox as a child, the virus hasnt completely gone away. It hides dormant in your body and can reemerge many years later as shingles. There are about 1 million cases of shingles each year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). About half of these cases occur among people over the age of 60.Older adults are most likely to develop shingles, which is why the shingles vaccine is recommended for people age 60 and older. Zostavax is currently the only vaccine approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to prevent shingles. According to the CDC, the vaccine can reduce your risk of getting shingles by more than half. Getting vaccinated can also help you avoid painful nerve complications from the disease. The shingles vaccine is also approved by the FDA for people ages 50 to 59. Even if youve had shingles before, you can still get the vaccine to prevent a future occurrence of it.The shingles vaccine contains ingredients that can cause an allergic reaction in some people. Avoid the shot if youve ever had a reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or other ingredients in the vaccine. You also want to avoid the shingles vaccine if your immune system is weakened due to: HIV, AIDS, or another condition that compromises your immune system drugs that lower your immune response, such as steroids cancer affecting the bone marrow or lymphatic system, such as leukemia or lymphoma cancer treatment such as radiation or chemotherapy Women who are pregnant or may become pregnant should also not get the vaccine. People with minor illnesses, like a cold, can be vaccinated but may want to recover before doing so.The shingles vaccine has been tested on thousands of people to ensure its efficacy and safety. Most of the time, the vaccine is safely administered without any side effects. When it does cause reactions, theyre usually mild. People have reported side effects including redness, swelling, itching, or soreness in the area of skin where they were injected. A small number of people have complained of a headache after being vaccinated. In very rare cases, people have developed a severe allergic reaction to the shingles virus. This reaction is called anaphylaxis. Signs of anaphylaxis include swelling of the face (including the mouth and eyes), hives, warmth or redness of the skin, trouble breathing, dizziness, irregular heartbeat, or a slow pulse. If you have any of these symptoms after getting the shingles vaccine, seek medical help right away. Anaphylaxis can be life threatening. Does the shingles vaccine contain thimerosal? You may be concerned about additives to the shingles vaccine especially thimerosal. Thimerosal is a preservative that contains mercury. Its added to some vaccines to prevent bacteria and other germs from growing in them. The worry about thimerosal arose when early research linked it to autism, although this connection has since been found to be untrue. The shingles vaccine does not contain any thimerosal.The shingles vaccine is made from the live virus. However, the virus is weakened, so it shouldnt make anyone with a healthy immune system sick. People whose immune system is weaker than normal do need to be careful. In very rare cases, people with a weakened immune system have gotten sick from the varicella zoster virus in the vaccine. Talk to your doctor if you suspect that you have a weakened immune system. Its perfectly safe for you to be around friends and family members even children after getting the shingles vaccine. Some people develop a chickenpox-like rash around the area on their skin where theyve been vaccinated. If you get this rash, youll want to cover it. Make sure any babies, young children, or people who are immunocompromised and havent been vaccinated against chickenpox dont touch the rash.