From PreventDisease.com By DAVE MIHALOVIC In a recent ruling, judges at the German Federal Supreme Court (BGH) confirmed that the measles virus does not exist. Furthermore, there is not a single scIn a recent ruling, judges at the German Federal Supreme Court (BGH) confirmed that the measles virus does not exist Furthermore, there is not a single scientific study in the world which could prove the existence of the virus in any scientific literature. This raises the question of what was actually injected into millions over the past few decades.Not a single scientist, immunologist, infectious disease specialist or medical doctor has ever been able to establish a scientific foundation, not only for the vaccination of measles but any vaccination for infants, pregnant women, the elderly and even many adult subgroups.Evidence has been published in the medical literature that vaccinated persons can get measles because either they do not respond to the vaccine or the vaccines efficacy wanes over time and vaccinated mothers do not transfer long lasting maternal antibodies to their infants to protect them in the first few months of life.German biologist Dr. Stefan Lanka initially offered 100,000 euros to anyone who could provide scientific evidence that the measles virus existed. He had initially been ordered to pay up in court after Doctor David Bardens attempted to claim the prize after providing the biologist with a study that had been published in a medical journal. At that time, a Judge in the regional court in Ravensburg, South Germany, ruled in the favour of Dr. Bardens in a controversial decision claiming the criteria for evidence had been met.The First Civil Senate of the BGH confirmed a judgment by the Higher Regional Court of Stuttgart (OLG) on in February 2016. The sum of 100,000 euros which was offered as a reward for scientific proof of the existence of the alleged measles virus did have to be paid to the plaintiff. The plaintiff also was ordered to bear all procedural costs.Five experts have been involved in the case and presented the results of scientific studies. All five experts, including Prof. Dr. Dr. Andreas Podbielski who had been appointed by the OLG Stuttgart as the preceding court, have consistently found that none of the six publications which have been introduced to the trial, contains scientific proof of the existence of the alleged measles virus.In the trial, the results of research into so-called genetic fingerprints of alleged measles virus have been introduced. Two recognised laboratories, including the worlds largest and leading genetic Institute, arrived at exactly the same results independently.The results prove that the authors of the six publications in the measles virus case were wrong, and as a direct result all measles virologists are still wrong today: They have misinterpreted ordinary constituents of cells as part of the suspected measles virus.Because of this error, during decades of consensus building process, normal cell constituents were mentally assembled into a model of a measles virus. To this day, an actual structure that corresponds to this model has been found neither in a human, nor in an animal. With the results of the genetic tests, all thesis of existence of measles virus has been scientifically disproved.The six publications submitted in the trial are the main relevant publications on the subject of measles virus. Since further to these six publications there not any other publications which would attempt by scientific methods to prove the existence of the measles virus, the Supreme Court judgment in the measles virus trial and the results of the genetic tests have consequences: Any national and international statements on the alleged measles virus, the infectivity of measles, and on the benefit and safety of vaccination against measles, are since then of no scientific character and have thus been deprived of their legal basis.Upon enquiries which had been triggered by the measles virus contest, the head of the National Reference Institute for Measles at the Robert Koch Institute (RKI), Prof. Dr. Annette Mankertz, admitted an important fact. This admission may explain the increased rate of vaccination-induced disabilities, namely of vaccination against measles, and why and how specifically this kind of vaccination seems to increasingly trigger autism.Prof. Mankertz has admitted that the measles virus contains typical cells natural components (ribosomes, the protein factories of the cell). Since the vaccination against measles contains whole whole measles virus, this vaccine contains cells own structures. This explains why vaccination against measles causes frequent and more severe allergies and autoimmune reactions than other types of vaccination. The court expert Prof. Podbielski stated on several occasions that by the assertion of the RKI with regard to ribosomes in the measles virus, the thesis of existence of measles virus has been falsified.In the trial it was also put on record that the highest German scientific authority in the field of infectious diseases, the RKI, contrary to its legal remit as per 4 Infection Protection Act (IfSG), has failed to create tests for alleged measles virus and to publish these. The RKI claims that it made internal studies on measles virus, however refuses to hand over or publish the results.All living cells contain ribosomes, tiny organelles composed of approximately 60 percent ribosomal RNA ( ) and 40 percent protein. However, though they are generally described as organelles, it is important to note that ribosomes are not bound by a membrane and are much smaller than other organelles. Some cell types may hold a few million ribosomes, but several thousand is more typical. The organelles require the use of an electron microscope to be visually detected. Ribosomes Present Absent Cell wall Peptidoglycan / Lipopolysaccharide No cell wall. Protein coat present instead. Living attributes Living organism Opinions differ on whether viruses are a form of life or organic structures that interact with living organisms. Introduction Bacteria constitute a large domain of prokaryotic A virus is a small infectious agent that replicates only (from Wikipedia) microorganisms. Typically a few micrometres in length, inside the living cells of other organisms. bacteria have a number of shapes, ranging from spheres to rods and spirals. Reproduction Fission- a form of asexual reproduction Invades a host cell and takes over the cell causing it to make copies of the viral DNA/RNA. Destroys the host cell releasing new viruses. Number of cells Unicellular; one cell No cells; not living Structures DNA and RNA floating freely in cytoplasm. DNA or RNA enclosed inside a coat of protein. Has cell wall and cell membrane. Treatment Antibiotics Vaccines prevent the spread and antiviral medications help to slow reproduction but can not stop it completely. Enzymes Yes Yes, in some Infection Localized Systemic Benefits Some bacteria are beneficial Viruses are not beneficial. However, a particular virus may be able to (e.g. certain bacteria are required in the gut) destroy brain tumors (see references). Viruses can be useful in genetic engineering. Size Larger (1000nm) Smaller (20 - 400nm)