The biological ingredients intentionally included in vaccines are the lab-altered viruses and bacterial toxins or parts of viruses and bacteria which are meant to produce immunity to infectious diseases. Of particular concern are the live-virus vaccines ( , chickenpox vaccine, the combined MMR-chickenpox vaccine and the live-virus influenza nasal vaccine). Equally worrisome are ingredients which have been genetically engineered or otherwise manufactured into freakish man-mutilated entities. As for marketing genetically engineered foods, the long-term consequences of injecting humans with GMOs has been poorly considered. But animal and human tissues used in the manufacture of vaccines using the less technologically advanced culturing method are not without problems either. Currently, influenza vaccines and the measles and mumps vaccines in the trivalent MMRII vaccine are cultured on chicken embryos, fragments of which remain in the vaccines. Chickenpox vaccine and Pediacel vaccine (containing antigens of diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, polio and Hib) are cultured on and contaminated with remains of foetal calf tissue. These remains from vaccine culture mediums contain DNA which may become inserted into our own genomes through a process called recombination.In fact, some viral vaccines are manufactured using growth mediums derived from an aborted human foetus. The rubella vaccine in MMRII is made in this way. (Chickenpox, Hepatitis A, and rabies vaccines as well as some mumps, inactivated polio and smallpox vaccines used in USA or other jurisdictions may also contain residual tissue from the use of human foetal cell lines.) According to Russell Blaylock MD, vaccines containing viruses grown in this way (ie on human cell lines) can cause recipients to produce antibodies to their own human tissue. Thus they may lead to demyelination of the nerves and auto-immune disorders. (5)Beginning with the very first vaccine, smallpox vaccine, contamination has literally been a constant dirty little secret. The great enthusiasm for the Salk polio vaccine and the later Sabin oral polio vaccine was dampened when it became common knowledge that, as they were vaccinated, millions had unknowingly received SV40. This was a carcinogenic virus which was present in monkey kidney tissue used to culture the polio vaccine. In more recent times, Health Canada has found it necessary to test vaccines for mad cow disease. While required testing by vaccine manufacturers prevents some contaminants from reaching the public (as happened in England in 2004 when influenza vaccine being made by Chiron Corp for USA was found contaminated with Listeria), obviously, not every single dose can be tested. And, even when theyve been found, regulatory authorities dont always insist on their removal, or if this cannot be achieved, the removal of marketing approval for the vaccine. Such was the case for SV40 for decades. New research suggests that human foetal tissue, a culture medium which has replaced the contaminated monkey tissue, may induce DNA mutations which may subsequently contribute to childrens autism spectrum disorders. In the spring of 2010, two pig viruses were found in Rota Teq rotavirus vaccine; one of them is an aggressive virus which causes immune suppression, wasting disease and death in baby pigs. But despite this, Rota Teq was approved for use in Canada in October 2010 and added to Ontarios taxpayer-funded schedule in summer, 2011. Hot on its heels, in September 2011, HPV vaccine samples were found to be contaminated with recombinant HPV DNA resulting from the production of that vaccines genetically engineered virus-like particles.