the resistance to invasion and spread of an infectious agent in a group or community, based on the resistance to infection of a high proportion of individual members of the group; resistance is a product of the number susceptible and the probability that susceptibles will come into contact with an infected person.The resistance to invasion and spread of an infectious agent in a group or community, based on the resistance to infection of a high proportion of individual members of the group.a group of animals, usually cattle, or pigs, or related wild animal species, which live a collective life together. This may be a natural pattern of behavior or be imposed by a human operated management system.herd diagnosis a diagnosis made to fit a herd problem which may be, for example, a low reproduction rate, or wool yield, or win rate at the races.herd fertility control scheme programs based on surveillance of all reproduction data and comparison of indexes with preset targets. Correction of inefficiencies may be implemented by the farmer but diagnosis of the cause and treatments and prophylaxes are largely the province of the veterinarian.herd health program a health management system based on periodic visits to the herd by a veterinarian to check the status of a series of identifiable health parameters including production, reproductive efficiency, mastitis prevalence, calf survival, cow culling and mortality rate, fecal egg counts. Superior programs also include production management so that genetics, nutrition, housing, disease control and financial management are coordinated in a wholefarm approach.herd immunity a level of resistance in a herd or flock which is sufficient to prevent the entry of a particular disease into, or its spread within, the herd. The resistance may be innate, a genetically based resistance, or acquired as a result of previous exposure to the particular agent or of vaccination. The general usage of the term relates to the prevention of spread of infection at an epidemic level. So that in a herd in which there are 70 to 80% of immune animals there may be sporadic cases but the prevalence is unlikely to be significant. The same comments apply to larger populations, e.g. a wild animal or companion animal population which is really not managed as a herd.rolling herd average (RHA) the average milk production per herd per year based on the 12 months just finished. Upon completion of a new test record, usually at monthly intervals, the record for the same period of the previous year is deducted and the new record is added, then a new rolling 365-day average is calculated. RHSs are updated with each new test. See also moving average.herd size a critical factor in planning for productivity efficiency. May be quoted as the number of animals of a particular age or stage of production, e.g. milking cows, assuming that other, usually young, stock are also carried on the farm.