Vaccine horror stories are everywhere these days and many doctors are not forth coming with all the facts. Besides genetically modified antigens found in most vaccines, there is a whole slew of questionable ingredients including aborted fetal cells and fetal bovine serum.The following information written by Levi Quackenboss focuses on the DTap vaccine which is promoted as defense against pertussis, or whooping cough. All ingredients are taken directly from the CDC excipient list, which is information that should shock any parent: (Source)Aluminum phosphate: this gel is used to suck up the the bacterial toxoids in vaccines. It holds onto the toxoid, slowly releasing it once injected, making the bodys immune response take longer. You may have heard that aluminum must be safe because its found in breast milk. Lets get this straight: aluminum is found in breast milk because the women in this country are poisoned from the food and water supply, not because it belongs there. There is no known use for aluminum in the human body.Heres the handy CDC PDF on aluminum safety where they discuss inhalation, oral consumption, and putting aluminum on the skin. Notice whats missing? Only in a teensy little section do they discuss injecting aluminum hydroxide and aluminum phosphate into rabbits (page 103, Other routes of exposure). There they admit that aluminum phosphate has three times the amount of absorption by the body when measured at 28 days compared to aluminum hydroxide. 28 days! Arent we told that the human body disposes of aluminum within hours?But the juicy part starts on page 76 of the PDF where it says, The neurotoxicity of aluminum following oral exposure has been well established in humans with renal insufficiency. That means that they know what it does to people with kidney disease because they dont bother to study what it does to healthy people. It goes on to name memory loss, fatigue, depression, behavioral changes, learning impairment and dementia. At the bottom of the page they say that aluminum toxicity is marked by confusion, muscle twitching, grand mal seizures, coma and death.Formaldehyde: usually formaldehyde is used as a resin, like for holding cheap-ass particle board furniture together. In vaccines its used to kill antigens to inactivate them. In 2011 the National Toxicology Program declared formaldehyde to be a known human carcinogen. Did you read that? It causes cancer. Not probably. Not possibly. They know it, they announced it, and they inject your kid with it anyway. But Quack, you say. Theres more formaldehyde in a pear. You know what?Screw that propaganda. Im sick of the stupid things people say to trivialize concerns about chronic illness in our children. Just because something is natural we should shut up and inject it into our bodies? How about everyone who tells me about pears takes a hefty injection of cyanide? Its a natural product of apple cores. Anyway. Formaldehyde is in almost every vaccine that isnt a live vaccine. At the two-month appointment its in the DTaP, Hib, Hep B, and Polio vaccines so even if you believe the dose makes the poison, multiply that dose by a factor of four.Ammonium sulfate: this is an ammonia salt that you might recognize as fertilizer! In the lab its used to purify proteins by salting them out. The safety sheet for it says that if ingested it can act as a laxative and can cause ammonia poisoning. It can also cause somnolence (that deep sleep some babies fall into after being vaccinated), tremors and convulsions.To read the full list of shocking ingredients and the full article by Levi Quackenboss, click here.