Three doses of the hepatitis B vaccine are generally given the first dose is usually given within 12 hours of birth, the second at about 2 months, and the third at about 6 months of age. Slight variations in this schedule are possible based on the mothers hepatitis B surface antigen status and the potential use of combination vaccines. Your pediatrician will discuss these issues with you.Five doses of the diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis combination vaccine are given, with the first dose usually given at 2 months of age, the second at 4 months, the third at 6 months, the fourth at about 15 months of age, and the fifth at about 5 years of age. Slight variations in this schedule are possible. Your pediatrician will discuss these issues with you.Four doses of the inactivated polio vaccine are given, with the first dose given at 2 months, the second at 4 months, the third at about 6 months, and the fourth at about 5 years of age.Pediarix is a combination vaccine that can help protect against five serious diseases: diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), hepatitis B, and polio. Pediarix is typically given at 2, 4, and 6 months of age.Four doses of the Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine are given. The first at 2 months, the second at 4 months, the third at 6 months, and the fourth at about 12 months of age. Slight variations in this schedule are possible. Your pediatrician will discuss these issues with you.RotaTeq is a vaccine that can help protect against rotavirus, which is a viral infection that can cause fever, vomiting, and diarrhea. The vaccine is given by mouth at three different times, each about one to two months apart.Two doses of the measles, mumps, and rubella combination vaccine are given, with the first dose given at about 12 months of age and the second given at about 5 years of age.Two doses of the varicella (chickenpox) vaccine are usually given at about 12 months of age and at 4 to 6 years of age.Four doses of the pneumococcal vaccine are usually given. The first is given at 2 months of age, the second at 4 months, the third at 6 months, and the fourth at about 12 months of age.The hepatitis A vaccine is given to protect against one type of hepatitis, hepatitis A. Hepatitis is a type of liver disease. The vaccine is typically given as a two-dose series, with the first shot given at the age of 1 and the second around 6 months later.Menactra is a vaccine given to protect against meningococcal disease, which is a serious bacterial infection that can cause meningitissevere swelling of the brain and spinal cord. It can also lead to sepsisa dangerous and potentially life-threatening blood infection.Gardasil is a vaccine given to help protect against diseases caused by certain types of human papillomavirus. These diseases include:The Gardasil vaccine is given in three doses, ideally as:Additional vaccines may be recommended for certain children at high risk. Your pediatrician will advise you about the need for these vaccines as well as provide a revised vaccination schedule for those patients who miss receiving a vaccine at the recommended time frames.This information is provided by the Cleveland Clinic and is not intended to replace the medical advice of your doctor or health care provider. Please consult your health care provider for advice about a specific medical condition. This document was last reviewed on: 10/15/2012#11288