Finally its coming to light and the fact is being told: Vaccines given to infants contained inordinate amounts of ethylmercury in the form of Thimerosal; the CDC knew about it and conspired to keep the devastating reality of mercury damage from healthcare consumers and public health agencies. A true crime against humanity and nothing short of federal agency child abuse!Thanks to the intrepid vaccine safety advocacy work by Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and his writing partner Lyn Redwood, RN, MSN, we learn,Those calculations were made back in the late 1990s and CDC officials have been covering up their voodoo vaccine consensus science ever since! Those actions should be prosecuted as crimes against humanity, including excessive child abuse by a government agency, and the CDC should be revamped from the inside out; restructured; and surgically separated from Big Pharma.The CDC brainwashing of the global medical profession, international health agencies and the media regarding the deceitfulness of vaccine safety is nothing short of criminal action, which must be addressed at every level: local school districts, state health agencies, national courts globally, and the World Health Organization, a mouthpiece of CDCs deceitfulness and fraudulent research and health recommendations. None comes to mind more so than the CDCs always trotting out the indicted Poul Thorsens infamous research that vaccines dont cause autism!What does mercury affect in the human body? The brain and central nervous system!This chart represents models of mercury in blood and tissues formulated by Dr. Barry Rumack, MD, a consultant who offered toxicologic and pharmacologic evaluation of drugs, biological and potentially toxic or hazardous agents for government and industry [1].According to Kennedy and Redwoods article,A most egregious aspect of the cover up is what happened within the CDC, as reported:The Kennedy-Redwood article, which I highly recommend you read in full, ends withPresident Trump has tasked Robert Kennedy Jr. with heading up an investigative commission regarding vaccines. Here are my concerns about:Nothing short of the above even can begin to rectify some of the horrors perpetrated upon several generations of children globally. California should be ashamed of itself and its SB277 [2]! Richard Pan, MD, should be struck from medical licensure and not permitted to practice.By the way, if readers really want to know the health problems associated with many other neurotoxins and chemicals in vaccines than ethylmercury, which still is in vaccines, you may want to read my book Vaccination Voodoo, What YOU Dont Know About Vaccines. It discusses from published peer review science and journals what those toxic ingredients do in the body.However, I wish Robert Kennedy Jr. would also take a very serious look at microwave radiation EMFs/RFs and the non-thermal radiation wave adverse health effects they are causing. I predict they, along with G5-in-the-sky, will be worse than the autism pandemic we are experiencing in our children: one in 10,000-15,000 in the 1970s; one in 68 in the USA. Check out other countries here.Weve seen the demonstrations for womens rights after the Trump inauguration. Well, isnt it time to organize about the rights of fetuses, newborns, infants, and toddlers being subjected to apparently legal and condoned chemical child abuse which is making them the sickest demographic statistic of all time for children regarding chronic diseases.Chronic conditions now affect 15 percent to 18 percent of children and teens, and even those estimates may not fully account for obesity and mental health woes, the Harvard team said. [3]Lets protect the future of humankind, our children! Catherine J Frompovich (website) is a retired natural nutritionist who earned advanced degrees in Nutrition and Holistic Health Sciences, Certification in Orthomolecular Theory and Practice plus Paralegal Studies. Her work has been published in national and airline magazines since the early 1980s. Catherine authored numerous books on health issues along with co-authoring papers and monographs with physicians, nurses, and holistic healthcare professionals. She has been a consumer healthcare researcher 35 years and counting.~~ Help Waking Times to raise the vibration by sharing this article with friends and family