Each year, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) approves immunization schedules for persons living in the United States. The immunization schedule for children and adolescents aged 18 years or younger provides a summary of ACIP recommendations on the use of routinely recommended vaccines. The immunization schedule as well as the catch-up immunization schedule have also been approved by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG).In October 2016, ACIP approved the 2017 Immunization Schedule for children and adolescents birth through 18 years, effective February 1, 2017.The comprehensive summary of the ACIP recommended changes made to the schedule can be found in the MMWR.Get the CDC Vaccine Schedules app for clinicians and other health care professionals for immediate access to CDCs latest recommended immunization schedules and view childhood, adolescent, adult, and catch-up vaccine schedules and footnotes on your smartphone and tablet devices. Free downloads are available from the iTunes App Store and Google Play. Note: If you previously downloaded the tool, check that you have version 4.0.1 with 2017 schedules and footnotes.Create a Customized Schedule of Vaccines Needed (birth to 6 years) Use this tool to create a personalized schedule you can give to and discuss with parents. Parents also can use this print-out to record their child's vaccinations. Enter the patients date of birth, click "get schedule", and then click "printable schedule." Use this tool to create a personalized schedule you can give to and discuss with parents. Parents also can use this print-out to record their child's vaccinations. Enter the patients date of birth, click "get schedule", and then click "printable schedule."The 2017 Binational Immunization Resource for Children from Birth through 18 Years [2 pages] is a side-by-side presentation of recommended vaccines in Mexico and the United States to help healthcare providers identify vaccines needed by children who previously received vaccines in Mexico and now reside in the U.S.CDC has developed job aids to assist healthcare providers in interpreting figure 2 in the Childhood/Adolescent immunization catch-up schedule.