The vector-prime-and-boost strategy is by no mean the universal one. Some vaccines prime with naked HIV DNA, which would be easier and cheaper to make than a vector; the challenge here is to get it into cells. Other vaccines dispense with the prime/boost strategy altogether.A major problem with antibodies is that although the body does produce, in many cases, highly adapted and unusual antibodies that are broadly neutralising and do eliminate the viruses that infect people (and can therefore be used as a kind of high-tech, long-lasting pre-exposure prophylaxis [PrEP] if given by infusion), once in the body, HIV develops immunity to them within weeks, staying ahead in an arms race which it usually wins.Dennis Burton of the Scripps institute in La Jolla, California and Stephen Kent of Melbourne University both talked in separate presentations about developing more immunogenic versions of the HIV envelop proteins that more closely mimic what the immune system actually sees in an infection. This has only been possible in recent years by using micro-manipulation techniques to get the gp120 surface protein to actually fold up into pairs and trios of protein called dimers and trimers, which is what the knobs on the surface of HIV actually look like, instead of using unfolded HIV envelope proteins.Researchers have induced broadly neutralising antibody responses by using these techniques, but the antibodies show a frustrating tendency to react to the wrong bits of the envelope protein, keying into holes in the shield of sugar molecules that surround the protein rather than directly evolving to attach to the protein itself. But getting cells to produce broadly neutralising antibodies at all in response to a vaccine is a major advance.One way round this is to alert the third, most non-specific but fastest branch of the immune system, the innate immune response. This does not specifically recognise HIV. But antibodies that are induced by vaccines like RV144 in turn alert cells of the innate immune system. These so-called natural killer' (NK) cells recognise general characteristics of infected cells and send cell-killing chemicals around to neutralise them. Researchers found that NK cells responded to a higher proportion of people immunised with the HVTN100 rather than the RV144 vaccine though when, six years after their first vaccine, RV144 recipients received a renewed dose, their systems reacted this way too.Another strategy is to get ahead of the arms race and make a vaccine that looks, to the immune system, like one of the adapted viruses seen in chronic infection, thus inducing the body to make broadly neutralising antibodies without HIV infection.Christopher Parks of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) introduced programmes to develop virus-like particles that are live vectors that spread from cell to cell and deliver what looks, to the immune system, like an ongoing HIV infection. So far, they have used a benign virus called VSV (vesicular stomatitis virus) as the shell of their live vector. In monkey studies it has so far only retarded HIV infection slightly, though there is a correlation between weak antibody response and faster infection. But they are trying to develop virus-like articles with more punch on them, including one coated with the HIV envelope protein itself and one even coated with envelop protein from the Ebola virus. As these are not actually viruses, they should be harmless, though clearly, safety studies will have to be done.