Since vaccines were first developed in the late 18th century, they have been used to combat and even eradicate many deadly illnesses. And despite some concerns from skeptics, vaccines have been widely heralded by the scientific community and public health officials as one of the greatest medical breakthroughs of the modern era. But vaccines can only reach their full potential if enough people are inoculated to stop dangerous pathogens from spreading. Vaccines work by using the weakened version of a pathogen to imitate but not cause an illness in a way that forces the body to develop a supply of defensive cells. These cells can then recognize and fight off a future infection should it occur. This process is different from other drugs because it prevents future illnesses rather than combating already-present infections. Vaccines have eliminated some of the most dangerous, fatal diseases in human history. The World Health Organization in 1979 declared smallpox globally eradicated, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that same year proclaimed polio eradicated in the United States. Other vaccines have managed to push various diseases to the brink of extinction, such astetanus and whooping cough. Throughout the history of vaccines,several groups have risen as skeptics of the drugs' safety and effectiveness. One ongoing movement, widely known as "anti-vaxxers," claims that vaccines can cause autism and other illnesses based on old, flawed studies that have beenwidely debunked. A lot of research and thescientific community as a whole have definitively disputed these claims, finding that vaccines are generally safe despite a few minor side-effects like fever, allergic reactions, and fainting. And with no good alternatives, vaccines are the best way to fight horrifying diseases like polio and smallpox. The big concern with anti-vaccine skepticism is that it may stop some people from getting vaccinated. That could prevent the population from achievingherd immunity, wherein so many people are vaccinated that disease-causing pathogens no longer have human sources to spread to and, as a result, can't survive.What happens when some people don't getvaccinated? Even a small number of unvaccinated people can make it much easier for a disease to spread and survive. There is a concept in science called "herd immunity," which refers to the idea that a lot of people need to get a given vaccine, whether it's for the flu or measles, to stop a disease from spreading. Vaccinated people essentially act as barriers to outbreaks, since diseases can't pass through them and infect others. This barrier helps protect some of the most vulnerable populations: infants under 12 months of age, who can't get vaccinated and are more susceptible to infection; the elderly, who have a higher risk of death if they contract vaccine-treatable illnesses; and people with compromised immune systems, who can't get vaccines and are more likely to die from the diseases they protect against. The threshold for herd immunity depends on the disease and how it's transmitted. In an analysis of several vaccine-treatable illnesses, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention set the lowest threshold of vaccine coverage at 75 percent (for mumps) and the highest at 94 percent (for measles). Even the low-end threshold requires at least three in four people to get vaccinated. The public health goal is to vaccinate everyone who is able so there's herd immunity for all vaccine-treatable illnesses. Over time, this would eradicate dangerous diseases specifically, those that are exclusive to humans by stopping them from spreading and developing in human hosts.What are vaccination rates in the UnitedStates? Only 0.7 percent of children aged 19 to 35 months received absolutely no vaccinations in 2013, according to the National Immunization Survey. But that number masks some of the lower levels of uptake for some vaccines; about 92 percent of children that age, for example, received a dose of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine. Some parents forgo vaccines for economic reasons. Maybe they can't afford to make the trip to the doctor or they don't have insurance that would pay for vaccines. That helps explain why, generally, vaccination rates are slightly lower for children living in poverty compared to those who aren't. And a really small segment of the population skips vaccines for medical reasons if, for example, a child has a compromised immune system that couldn't handle vaccines. Others opt out of childhood vaccine requirements for school children for religious or philosophical reasons. This map, made by Mother Jones with CDC data, estimates non-medical exemption rates across the United States for the 20122013 school year: This map doesn't capture the variation within states. Some communities might have much lower vaccination rates than the rest of the state. It's these types of clusters that most worry public health officials, since disease outbreaks can take off there and eventually begin trickling out to other parts of the country. (This is what happened during the2014 Ohio Amish measles outbreak and the20142015 Disneyland measles outbreak.) These outbreaks in small communities exemplify why it's so important for everyone who is able to get vaccinated to do so. If enough people are inoculated, the population reaches a coverage threshold known asherd immunity that prevents illnesses from spreading and turning into an epidemic.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sets the US vaccination schedule. Some of the vaccines, like Hepatitis B, are administered once. Others, like the flu vaccine, are needed each year. If you're not sure about whether you're immunized, you can ask your doctor for a blood test that will give an answer within a couple of days. The CDC schedule is based on the occurrence of someone becomes seriously susceptible to each disease on the list. Researchers say people who delay vaccinations are a public health risk, as they put off vaccines that are timed according to the best-available science to keep babies healthy. "There is just no science to" delaying vaccinations, Doug Opel, a Seattle pediatrician who studies vaccines, told Vox's Julia Belluz. "We immunize with this vaccine at this time because kids are most at risk at this point. They are most susceptible. What gets lost a lot of the time is that there's an incredible amount of data underlying the recommended schedule." For more detailed information, check out the CDC's website and talk to your doctor.So far, we've used vaccines toentirely wipe out two diseases: smallpox and rinderpest, which infects cattle. We've also come extremely close to eradicatingpolio, with less than 500 new cases annually, largely in Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Pakistan. In the United States, along list of diseases have been nearly eradicated by vaccines: diphtheria, bacterial influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, and tetanus, among others. Still, there aremany developing countries that have limited vaccine supplies and scant funding for childhood vaccination services, which has allowed preventable diseases like whooping cough and rotavirus to continue spreading. On the whole, though, the world has made progress: Global vaccination rates formeasles, for example, climbed to 84 percent in 2013. UNICEF and the World Health Organization are alwaysworking to increase this number, focusing heavily on underdeveloped or developing countries with low vaccination rates. The global vaccine coverage goals are crucial becausediseasescan't infect or spreadthrough vaccinated people so if enough people are vaccinated, a pathogen won't be able to find a new host and will eventually die off.Do vaccines cause autism and other healthproblems? The scientific evidence is very clear: There's no link between vaccines and autism, and vaccines are generally safe, although they can cause some rare, typically minor side effects. In a broad analysis of vaccines and their adverse effects, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in 2011 concluded vaccines are not linked with autism or other serious medical problems, including type 1 diabetes. The study looked at vaccines for various diseases, including MMR (mumps, measles, and rubella), HPV, and hepatitis A, and found no serious side effects to be prevalent.But the report did identify some other, less-serious side effects, such as fever and allergic reactions. IOM's findings align with previous research. One meta-analysis published in 2009 in the Oxford Journals concluded vaccines and thimerosal, a mercury-containing compound found in some vaccines, do not cause autism. Another study published in 2010 in Pediatrics found timely vaccination produced no adverse effects on neuropsychological outcomes seven to 10 years after the vaccines were administered. The Lancet in 2010 also retracted a 1998 study that claimed to tie MMR vaccines to autism. The study receivedwidespread criticism from the scientific community, and an independent regulator found the study seriously flawed. It was, however, circulated for years by anti-vaccine critics as proof of their claims. Public health experts say it's important for everyone to know vaccines are safe and effective so enough people get vaccinated to reachherd immunity, when so many people are immunized that diseases have a difficult if not impossible time finding hosts to spread to and therefore can't turn into serious public health threats.Why do some people opposevaccination? Some groups oppose vaccination or at least the current vaccination schedule for children out of concerns that vaccines can lead to long-term health problems, particularly autism. Actress Jenny McCarthy became an especially well-known face of the anti-vaccination movement widely known as "anti-vaxxers" after her son was diagnosed with autism. McCarthy, who leads Generation Rescue, claims the rise of autism diagnoses coincides with a more aggressive vaccination schedule for children in the United States. To be clear, the current scientific evidence shows no link between vaccines and autism. Although it's easy to characterize people like McCarthy as anti-science, they genuinely do believe that the evidence is on their side. They point to, for example, a 1998 study which has now beenwidely debunked that claimed to have found a link between vaccines and autism. But the evidence they cite tends to be cherry-picked, and ignores the overwhelming scientific consensus, which has developed over decades of research, that vaccines are safe and effective. Anti-vaccination movements aren't new. They actually date back to the late 18th century, with the advent of the smallpox vaccine. Some Christian clergy said the vaccine violated religious principles because it used parts from an animal. Others voiced a lingering distrust for medicine. Still others objected to a government-mandated vaccination as a violation of personal liberties. British satirist James Gillray in 1802 captured the sentiment in a cartoon that implied people could become part cow if they took the smallpox vaccine. The smallpox vaccine never led to such outcomes. Instead, the World Health Organization in 1979 said smallpox had been eradicated worldwide, largely because of widespread inoculation. But smallpox was only eradicated becauseenough people were inoculated that the virus could no longer find a human host to spread to and develop in. If it wasn't for the high coverage rate of the smallpox vaccine, the disease would likely remain with us today.A survey from the Pew Research Center found 68 percent of US adults say childhood vaccines should be mandatory, compared to 86 percent of scientists with the American Association for the Advancement of Science. But very few parents actually get their children exempted from mandatory vaccinations: The median rate of exemptions for every state was about 1.8 percent in the 20132014 school year, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A survey of 1,000 US adults by YouGov, conducted during the Disneyland measles outbreak in January 2015, found 57 percent of Americans support mandatory childhood vaccinations while 32 percent say parents should decide. Younger adults were much more likely to say childhood vaccination should be optional. The YouGov survey also found 21 percent of young adults believe the long-debunked idea that vaccines cause autism, while just 13 percent of all US adults agree. The empirical research on this issue is clear: There's no connection between vaccines and autism. Public health officials say it's important the general population realizes vaccines are safe and effective so everyone who is able to gets vaccinated. If enough people don't get vaccinated, pathogens are much more likely to find suitable hosts and cause big outbreaks or epidemics.