(Natural News) A new organization launched this morning calling themselvesVaccine Safety Commission, a nonprofit organization that was formed by concerned scientists, doctors, journalists, and parents. For now, the group has chosen to remain anonymous, but I certainly hope that changes soon. The group has no formal affiliation to either Robert F. Kennedy or President Trump, but wholeheartedly endorses the formation of a Vaccine Safety Commission, and claims to beactively seeking additional members.In my opinion, we are in the dark ages of having honest conversations about vaccine injury where truth-tellers are still routinely destroyed, and I hope this group is another step in the right direction towards honest dialogue. Consider the case just this week of science journalist and Harvard educated Mish Michaels:Mish Michaels, who lost her job as a science reporter at WGBH News this week after questions were raised about her anti-vaccine views, issued a statement Thursday night saying her personal beliefs have been positioned inaccurately. At issue are comments Michaels made before the Massachusetts Legislature in 2011 on behalf of a bill to add parental choice to the list of reasons children without immunizations may attend school. (Currently, children who arent immunized may only attend school if they have documentation from a doctor, or if a parent submits a written statement declaring that immunization conflicts with their religious beliefs.)At least one group of doctors are going public: a group calledPhysicians for Informed Consentrecently launched in California, speaking up about the importance of keeping vaccines as a voluntary medical procedure.Regarding President Trumps desire to look more closely at vaccine safety, I was emboldened by anexcellent editoriallast week in theBritish Medical Journalby their Associate Editor, Dr. Peter Doshi, which should really be read by everyone. Heres an excerpt:It does matter if the vast majority of doctors or scientists agree on something. But medical journalists should be among the first to realize that while evidence matters, so too do the legitimate concerns of patients. And if patients have concerns, doubts, or suspicionsfor example, about the safety of vaccines, this does not mean they are anti-vaccine. Anti-vaccine positions certainly exist in the world, but approaches that label anybody and everybody who raises questions about the right headedness of current vaccine policiesmyself included9as anti-vaccine fail on several accounts. Firstly, they fail to accurately characterize the nature of the concern. Many parents of children with developmental disorders who question the role of vaccines had their children vaccinated. Anti-vaccination is an ideology, and people who have their children vaccinated seem unlikely candidates for thetitle.On February 7, 2017, the American Academy of Pediatrics sent aletterto President Trump protesting the establishment of a Vaccine Safety Commission, and included a list of 41 published studies which the AAP believes prove that vaccines are safe and effective, and couldnt possibly be causing American children any harm whatsoever, as they state in their letter:What I find interesting about the AAPs choice of words is that they often seem to be mixing up their words when it comes to vaccine safety. On the one hand, they make statements that are simply unsupportable like expressing their unequivocal support for the safety of vaccines. What does that mean, unequivocal support? Does that mean whatever harm they cause is simply worth it, or that absolutely no harm is ever caused? By engaging in generalized hyperbole, the AAP makes it hard to have an honest conversation about the risks vs. benefits of vaccines.In certain ways, I think the AAPs letter is laughable. The AAP claims that vaccines are safe, but most of the studies they include only address one very specific condition: autism. What about the growing body of evidence relating the aluminum adjuvant in vaccines to the chronic food allergies our children are experiencing? Never mentioned. What ahout the new HPV vaccine with an alarming rate of adverse events reported? Silent. What about the data showing that children receiving multiple vaccines have much higher rates of emergency room visits? Not a word. Are vaccines safe so long as they dont cause autism, or does safety mean something much broader?My personal opinion about this whole mess is that weve traded a reduction in certain acute illnesses (measles, chicken pox) for an explosion in many chronic illnesses, particularly neurological and auto-immune disorders, all of which are now epidemic in our children. Let me ask you a simple question to test my hypothesis:Whats wrong with our kids, why are they so sick, and why isnt a massive uptick in the number of vaccines given a reasonable hypothesis for whats happened? I like this blog post yesterday from author, journalist, and nutritionist Catherine J Frompovich where she asks many of these questions:If the Rand Corporation found strong evidence vaccines cause Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), myalgia, seizures, meningitis, encephalitis and other adverse health problems, and Robert F Kennedy Jr., Esq. is revealing more and more researchalmost dailythis time from the Yale School of Medicine and Penn State College of Medicine about an association between vaccines and brain disorders, then whats all the tap dancing about? Lets get to some serious conclusions. Like tap dancing that makes a lot of noise, so too are vaccine studies peripherally pointing to real vaccine concerns about which the U.S. federal health agencies (HHS, CDC and FDA) and state health departments probably wont do anything to correct, i.e., eliminate vaccines, as some countries are doing with some vaccines. The ever-increasinggrowing like TopsyCDC vaccine schedule has to stop! With almost three hundred new vaccines in production, how many will infants, toddlers and teens be mandated to receive when those vaccines obtain licensure? Furthermore, arent vaccines Big Pharmas annuity products, so what should consumers expect?The American Academy of Pediatrics is a trade union for pediatricians. Pediatricians make most of their income from vaccinating babies. They are encouraging President Trump NOT to study making vaccines safer, even though our government has paid out more than $3.5 billion to Americans to compensate them for vaccine injury. Something isnt adding up!As I already mentioned, the science the AAP sent President Trump deals exclusively with the subject of whether or not vaccines cause autism. Oddly, they sent the President several papers authored by a Whistleblower scientist at CDC who hasconfessed to throwing away dataimplicating the MMR vaccine in autism,a wanted felon, and a paper that clearly explained that vaccines WERE causing neurological tics (I dont think thats safe). Heres the Vaccine Safety Commissions slides addressing these three studies. (Note that Dr. ThompsonCDC Whistleblowerand Poul Thorsenwanted felonare actually co-authors tomanyof the studies the AAP sent President Trump):1. YALE SCIENTISTS FIND STRONG ASSOCIATION BETWEEN VACCINATIONS AND ANOREXIA, OCD, AND ANXIETYDISORDER Temporal Association of Certain Neuropsychiatric Disorders Following Vaccination of Children and Adolescents: A Pilot Case-Control StudyFrontiers in Psychiatry, January 2017, Douglas L. Leslie, Robert A. Kobre, Brian J. Richmand Summary:Subjects with newly diagnosed anorexia nervosa were more likely than controls to have had any vaccination in the previous 3 months [hazard ratio (HR) 1.80, 95% confidence interval 1.212.68]. Influenza vaccinations during the prior 3, 6, and 12 months were also associated with incident diagnoses of AN, OCD, and an anxiety disorder. Several other associations were also significant with HRs greater than 1.40 (hepatitis A with OCD and AN; hepatitis B with AN; and meningitis with AN and chronic tic disorder). This pilot epidemiologic analysis implies that the onset of some neuropsychiatric disorders may be temporally related to prior vaccinations in a subset of individuals. New Quality-Control Investigations on Vaccines: Micro- and NanocontaminationInternational Journal of Vaccines and Vaccination, January 2017, Dr. Antonietta M. Gatti, Stefano Montanari Summary:Scientists found contaminants in all vaccines that are not listed on the label of the vaccines. The analyses carried out show that in all samples checked vaccines contain non biocompatible and bio-persistent foreign bodies which are not declared by the Producers, against which the body reacts in any case. This new investigation represents a new quality control that can be adopted to assess the safety of a vaccine. Our hypothesis is that this contamination is unintentional, since it is probably due to polluted components or procedures of industrial processes (e.g. filtrations) used to produce vaccines, not investigated and not detected by the Producers. If our hypothesis is actually the case, a close inspection of the working places and the full knowledge of the whole procedure of vaccine preparation would probably allow to eliminate the problem. 3. ISRAELI AND ITALIAN SCIENTISTS WARN THAT VACCINE ADJUVANTS (ALUMINUM) ARE CAUSING A WIDE-RANGE OF AUTOIMMUNE CONDITIONS, INCLUDING SJOGRENS SYNDROME Summary:Several case reports have suggested that both vaccines and silicone may trigger the development of SS [Sjo?grens syndrome, a chronic systemic autoimmune inflammatory condition involving the exocrine glands]. Aluminum is one of the principal adjuvants used in vaccine formulation and may be responsible for the development of ASIA syndrome. It seems that its ability to behave as an adjuvant might be related to evidence that aluminum salts seem to both induce the activation of dendritic cells and complement components and increase the level of chemokine secretion at the injection site other vaccines including Bacillus Calmette Gue?rin (BCG), hepatitis A and/or B and human papillomavirus, should be avoided or considered only in selected patients There is considerable evidence raising the possibility of vaccine-triggered autoimmunity 4. INFANTS VACCINATED WITH MULTIPLE VACCINES AT ONCE HAVE MUCH HIGHER HOSPITALIZATIONS AND DEATH RATES THAN INFANTS WHO RECEIVE FEWER SIMULTANEOUS VACCINES Combining Childhood Vaccines at One Visit Is Not SafeJournal of American Physicians and Surgeons, Summer 2016, Neil Z. Miller Summary:Our study showed that infants who receive several vaccines concurrently, as recommended by CDC, are significantly more likely to be hospitalized or die when compared with infants who receive fewer vaccines simultaneously. It also showed that reported adverse effects were more likely to lead to hospitalization or death in younger infants. The safety of CDCs childhood vaccination schedule was never affirmed in clinical studies. Vaccines are administered to millions of infants every year, yet health authorities have no scientific data from synergistic toxicity studies on all combinations of vaccines that infants are likely to receive. National vaccination campaigns must be supported by scientific evidence. 5. ISRAELI, CANADIAN, AND COLOMBIAN SCIENTISTS SHOW THAT GARDASIL VACCINE TRIGGERS BRAIN INFLAMMATION AND AUTOIMMUNITY INMICE Behavioral abnormalities in female mice following administration of aluminum adjuvants and the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine GardasilImmunol Res, July 2016, Rotem Inbar, Ronen Weiss, Lucija Tomljenovic, Maria-Teresa Arango, Yael Deri, Christopher A, Shaw, Joab Chapman, Miri Blank, Yehuda Shoenfeld Summary:Vaccine adjuvants and vaccines may induce autoimmune and inflammatory manifestations in susceptible individuals. To date most human vaccine trials utilize aluminum (Al) adjuvants as placebos despite much evidence showing that Al in vaccine-relevant exposures can be toxic to humans and animalsIt appears that Gardasil via its Al adjuvant and HPV antigens has the ability to trigger neuroinflammation and autoimmune reactions, further leading to behavioral changesIn light of these findings, this study highlights the necessity of proceeding with caution with respect to further mass-immunization practices with a vaccine of yet unproven long-term clinical benefit in cervical cancer prevention