Vaccines have contributed to a significant reduction in many childhood infectious diseases, such as diphtheria, measles, and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). Some infectious diseases, such as polio and smallpox, have been eliminated in the United States due to effective vaccines. It is now rare for children in the United States to experience the devastating and often deadly effects of these diseases that were once common in the United States and other countries with high vaccination coverage.The vast majority of vaccines are given to healthy babies, children and adults; therefore, it is critical that vaccines be demonstrated to be safe and effective. Ensuring the safety and effectiveness of vaccines is one of the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) top priorities. The Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) is the center within FDA that has regulatory oversight of vaccines in the United States assuring the availability of safe and effective vaccines.Because immunization programs of the 20th century were so successful, many of todays parents have never seen many vaccine-preventable diseases and do not understand the potential for them to re-emerge. If too many individuals choose not to vaccinate themselves or their children, some diseases that are now rare or non-existent in this country may resurface.The viruses and bacteria that cause vaccine-preventable diseases and death still exist and can cause disease in people who are not protected by vaccines. For example, although measles has not been constantly present in the United States since 2000, sporadic cases continue to occur, primarily from unvaccinated visitors who are bringing the disease into the United States from other countries or unvaccinated U.S. travelers returning to the U.S. from countries where measles is still common, including countries in Europe, Asia, the Pacific, and Africa. The United States began experiencing a large multi-state measles outbreak in December 2014 that started in California and spread to additional states and Mexico. The majority of people who got measles were unvaccinated. The initial patients who were confirmed with measles reported visiting two Disneyland Resort Theme Parks in Orange County, California, from December 17 through December 20, 2014. The source of the outbreak is unknown, but it is likely that a traveler (or more than one traveler) who became infected with measles overseas visited one or both of the Disney parks in December during the time that they were infectious.Measles is one of the most contagious diseases and can cause severe complications, including pneumonia, swelling of the brain, and death. Outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as measles, serve as a reminder that they are only a plane-ride away and the best way not to get sick is to get vaccinated.A vaccine is a medication. Like any medicine, vaccines have benefits and risks, and although highly effective, no vaccine is 100 percent effective in preventing disease or 100 percent safe in all individuals. Most side effects of vaccines are usually minor and short-lived. For example, a person may feel soreness at the injection site or experience a mild fever. Serious vaccine reactions are extremely rare, but they can happen."Parents should know that the risk of being harmed by a vaccine is significantly smaller than the risk of serious illness from infectious diseases," says Marion Gruber, Ph.D., director of the Office of Vaccines Research and Review in CBER. "Vaccination is a very important step to get children off to a healthy start."For more information on potential adverse events or reactions, talk with your healthcare provider, and many vaccines also have FDA-approved labeling for the patient that can be a resource of information. It is important to discuss with your healthcare provider any prior reactions to vaccines and any adverse reactions following vaccination.Vaccines work by preparing the bodys immune system for future attacks by a certain disease, caused by either viruses or bacteria. Vaccines contain weakened bacteria or viruses, or parts of bacteria or viruses, and mimic these disease-causing agents (which are called antigens). As a result of vaccination, the bodys immune system thinks the antigens from the vaccine are foreign and shouldnt be in the body, but the antigens dont cause disease in the person receiving the vaccine. After receiving the vaccine, if the virus or bacteria that cause the real disease then enters the body in the future, the immune system is prepared and responds quickly and forcefully to attack the disease-causing agent to prevent the person from getting sick. Vaccines are frequently given by injection (a shot), but some are given by mouth and one is sprayed into the nose.There are various types of vaccines that are routinely given to childrenThese sheets explain both the benefits and risks of a vaccine. Healthcare providers are required by law to provide them.Talk to your healthcare provider about the benefits and risks of vaccinesLearn the facts about the benefits and risks of vaccines, along with the potential consequences of not vaccinating against diseases. Some parents and caregivers are surprised to learn that children can be harmed or die of measles, diphtheria, pertussis, and other vaccine-preventable diseases.Conditions to make your healthcare provider aware of before vaccinationThis might include being sick or having a history of certain allergic or other adverse reactions to previous vaccinations or their components. For example, eggs are used to grow many influenza (flu) vaccines; therefore, it is important to inform the healthcare provider if a child is severely allergic to eggs.The packaging of some vaccines that are supplied in vials or prefilled syringes may contain natural rubber latex, which may cause allergic reactions in latex-sensitive individuals; therefore, an allergy to latex is helpful to inform healthcare providers of beforehand.It is also particularly important to discuss with your healthcare provider which vaccines should or should not be given to children who have weakened immune systems.Adverse reactions and other problems related to vaccines should be reported to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, which is maintained by FDA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). For a copy of the vaccine reporting form, call 1-800-822-7967, or report online to www.vaers.hhs.govSome of the most commonly administered vaccines are briefly discussed below. A complete list of licensed vaccines in the United States and additional information, such as prescribing information and patient labeling are available at: http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/Vaccines/ApprovedProducts/ucm093833.htm.Your healthcare provider may decide to use the following vaccines to prevent the diseases described previously. These are also approved by FDA and could reduce the total number of shots a child receives.No. Because of advances in science and manufacturing, it is easier than in the past to be sure that vaccines are highly pure. Vaccines represent only a minor stimulation of the infant immune system compared to the large number of potentially dangerous bacteria and viruses babies routinely encounter: starting immediately after a baby is born; thousands of different bacteria begin to live on the skin and the lining of the nose, throat, and intestines. The babys immune system rapidly launches immune responses to these bacteria that prevent them from invading the blood stream.Yes. Each ingredient in a vaccine is included for a reason. Before FDA determines that a vaccine is safe and effective and licenses it for use by the public in the United States, the vaccine is carefully evaluated by FDA scientists and doctors, taking into account the ingredients that make up the entire vaccine.No, the scientific evidence does not support a link between vaccination and autism or other developmental disorders.Vaccines Licensed for Use in the United Stateswww.fda.gov/cber/vaccine/licvacc.htm