Immunization: You Call the Shots-Module Sixteen-Vaccines for Children Program2017 WB2757PROGRAM DESCRIPTION: This module is the Sixteenth in a series titled Immunization: You Call the Shots and focuses on the Vaccines for Children Program.The series has been available since the mid-nineties in various formats. Previously available as a CDrom, it is now presented in web-based format. The series is designed to provide key immunization knowledge in a very basic step-by-step manner. It presents practice-oriented content about immunization. It does not discuss the denser more complex material regarding epidemiology, disease transmission, etc.It addresses an important audience for immunization training: the new provider or the medical or nursing student. It is also an excellent review for a seasoned healthcare provider. It has often been used by nursing schools to introduce their students to the comprehensive core knowledge about immunization.Since it presents a simpler version of the core knowledge about immunization it is a needed alternative to the faster-paced denser core course that NCIRD provides, titled Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases. It is a multi-session course of 12 to 15 hours. Evaluation of that course revealed that immunization providers sought a primer or more basic course for newcomers to the immunization field. The You Call The Shots series directly responds to that evaluation feedback.OBJECTIVES: At the conclusion of the session, the participant will be able to:PREREQUISITES: Participants should have a basic educational background in science including general knowledge in the subject areas of biology, immunization and vaccine-preventable diseases.FORMAT: This course is Enduring material.CONTACT INFORMATION: For content-related questions, please contact NIPInfo@cdc.gov For CE-related questions, contact MBarnett2@cdc.govCME: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention designates this Enduring material for a maximum of 1 AMA PRA Category 1 Credits. Physicians should claim only the credit commensurate with the extent of their participation in the activity. CNE: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited as a provider of Continuing Nursing Education by the American Nurses Credentialing Center's Commission on Accreditation.CEU: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is authorized by IACET to offer .1 CEU's for this program.CECH: Sponsored by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a designated provider of continuing education contact hours (CECH) in health education by the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc. This program is designated for Certified Health Education Specialists (CHES) and/or Master Certified Health Education Specialists (MCHES) to receive up to 1 total Category I continuing education contact hours. Maximum advanced level continuing education contact hours available are 0. CDC provider number 98614.CPE: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education as a provider of continuing pharmacy education.This program is a designated event for pharmacists to receive 1 Contact Hours in pharmacy education. The Universal Activity Number is 0387-0000-17-011-H04-P .Category: This activity has been designated as knowledge-based.For Certified Public Health Professionals (CPH) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is a pre-approved provider of Certified in Public Health (CPH) recertification credits and is authorized to offer 1 CPH recertification credits for this program.CDC is an approved provider of CPH Recertification Credits by the National Board of Public Health Examiners. Effective October 1, 2013, the National Board of Public Health Examiners (NBPHE) accepts continuing education units (CEU) for CPH recertification credits from CDC. Please select CEU as your choice for continuing education when registering for a course on TCEOnline. Learners seeking CPH should use the guidelines provided by the NBPHE for calculating recertification credits. For assistance please contact NBPHE at http://www.NBPHE.org.DISCLOSURE: In compliance with continuing education requirements, all presenters must disclose any financial or other associations with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters as well as any use of unlabeled product(s) or product(s) under investigational use.CDC, our planners, content experts, and their spouses/partners wish to disclose they have no financial interests or other relationships with the manufacturers of commercial products, suppliers of commercial services, or commercial supporters. Planners have reviewed content to ensure there is no bias.Content will not include any discussion of the unlabeled use of a product or a product under investigational use.CDC did not accept commercial support for this continuing education activity.Complete the activity Complete the Evaluation at www.cdc.gov/TCEOnline Pass the posttest at __ __% at www.cdc.gov/TCEOnlineFEES: No fees are charged for CDCs CE activities.