Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Del Bigtree, and Robert De Niro held a press conference today at the National Press Club calling vaccine safetyinto question and highlighting the dangers of thimerosal (mercury) in vaccines. Kennedy even offered $100,000 to anyjournalistwho could provide a peer-reviewedstudy showingthat injecting mercury into a child wassafe. It was all quite impressive.Im glad nobody was holding their breath for a legit un-biased responsefrom the media. They know no such study exists, but that didnt stop them from doing the usual sweepage under the rug complete with the typical anti-vaxxer rhetoric used to attack, discredit, and shut down conversation. The bottom line?The ingredients in vaccines puppy hair, unicorn horns, liquid diesel fuel, eggs from the Easter bunny, and mercury are perfectly safe to inject into pregnant women and their babies.Wait a minute are these people CRAZY? Has the CDC completely LOSTit? Is common sense DEAD? Is having unbiased regulators and a safety commissionon vaccines really too much to ask? Do todays journalists have zero integrity or do they just not care. (Dont answer that.)On what planet is one of the most toxicsubstances known to man safe to inject into a tiny humans body, and why in the world would we do thisin the off-chance of preventing a 3-5 day flu that brings on a low temp, a few boogers, and primes the immune system? Seriously, toilet water would be more effective than a flu shot and doesnt contain mercury.Oh, but ethylmercury is extremely safe and the body is so good at eliminating it shows no study whatsoever. Did you know that the FDA and CDC use studies done on methylmercury which is not even the type of mercury contained in vaccines to form its stanceon the safety of ethylmercury?And we call this good science?To be honest, we should save our American tax dollarsbecause common sense would tell anyone using even a 4th of their brain cells that injecting a poison into a baby or exposing a developing fetus to something as toxic as mercury (in any form)isnt safe. Like, lets do a study to determine whether or not poop smells and when the studies all show that poop smells, lets pretend it doesnt and use the studies we conducted on wild ants in the rainforest to support it.Common sense aside, we know that no matter what the data shows, the CDC will promote its asininevaccination programeven if half of our little boy population is walking around brain-damaged by the year 2024. (Look up the projected autism numbers people.)The studies exist but we have regulatory agencies that pretend they dont and look at a person cross-eyed when they dare state the obvious: Poop smells and mercury is dangerous.Vaccines in general havent been provensafe. Even without thimerosal they wouldnt be safe because there are a cajillion other toxinsin vaccines not a single one of which has proven safe to inject into the body (unlessyoure counting thepoorlyconstructed and/or fabricated data they like to pass off as safety studies these days).But were just talking about mercury here, and you shouldnt have to proffer studies to show a professional who should know better that mercury isnt safe. They should be showing YOU the studies that show ethylmercury injected into the body of any human is safe.If a dentist has to wear a hazmat suit to deal with mercury fillings and the vaporization of the mercury in those fillings can cause brain damage, and you cant throw a mercury-filled lightbulb in your trash, suck the mercury out of a thermometer, or eat fish containing methylmercury, its probably a safe bet that we shouldnt be injecting mercury in ANY FORM whatsoever into a child.No matter how theytry to disguise it, dress it up, or wish it away, mercury is toxic andthats just scientific FACT.Want to know more about mercury in vaccines? Check out theWorld Mercury Project, read the studies, and tell anyone who would dare try to convince you that injecting something poisonous into your kids is okay to take a seat.