CLEVELAND, Ohio-- Most people who skip the flu shot every year have a long list of reasons for doing so: I never get the flu; the flu isn't dangerous; the vaccination gives you the flu; I'm not likely to get very sick from the flu if I'm infected.Of all these reasons, only the last is true -- and only for a certain group of people. For healthy young adults, it is unlikely that the flu will be deadly or dangerous enough to require hospitalization. So why is it important, then, that everyone get the shot?The best answer might be herd immunity, which is what immunologists define as the protection of the weak and vulnerable that arises when enough of the population is vaccinated to shield them from infection.Of course, vaccinating yourself vastly increases the odds that you won't get sick with flu this season, but it also protects everyone you come into contact with: your parents, your sister's new baby, the stranger on the bus who can't get vaccinated because of an egg allergy, and everyone who isn't able to weather an infection as well as you.The idea of herd immunity is like a moat around a castle or the natural behavior of herd animals when threatened by a predator. The strong surround the weak to protect them from attack; in this case the vaccinated protect those who can't be vaccinated or those with low immunity from contact with the flu by halting the spread of the virus."Herd immunity is the idea that if I'm the one cow who can't get vaccinated surrounded by all the other cows who did, then they can't give me anything," says Cindy Modie, supervisor of vaccine services at the Cuyahoga County Board of Health. "So I'm safe as long as I'm in the middle of the herd."Depending on the illness in question, research has shown that it takes 80 percent to 95 percent vaccination coverage in a community to reach herd immunity. Diseases that are more easily spread, or that remain contagious for a longer period of time, usually require higher vaccination rates to keep them in check, Modie says.Herd immunity has been achieved in a lot of childhood illnesses that used to kill or disable, and that now are exceedingly rare in this country, says Dr. Alfred Connors , chief medical officer at MetroHealth Medical Center."We've done a very good job of vaccinating people against polio, pertussis [whooping cough], all of these illnesses that used to be the scourge of childhood," he says.Diseases such as measles, mumps, pertussis and polio make headlines now only when herd immunity breaks down and children are again left vulnerable. Outbreaks of whooping cough have killed children in the past two years in California and other states where vaccination rates in small pockets of the population have dipped far below the national average.Global travel also has widened the concept of "community" so much that "you now have to pay attention to the vaccine rate in the whole world," says Dr. Frank Esper, a pediatric infectious-disease specialist at University Hospitals Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital.This is why he and his colleagues watch the spread of polio in certain areas of the world."Why should I care about polio in Afghanistan?" he asks. "There are plenty of people moving to and from Afghanistan right now, and the disease is going to come back if we don't keep up our end of the bargain in keeping our children vaccinated.""We're no longer that isolated cow that can stay amongst the vaccinated herd, because of travel," says Modie.Still, high vaccination rates act as a buffer if a virus does enter from the outside, she says. This was the case last year during the largest outbreak of measles in the U.S. in 15 years, which public health officials believe was triggered by cases among people who were infected while traveling mostly to Western Europe.The outbreak, which affected more than 200 children, could have been much worse. More than half the cases were among people who were eligible for the vaccine but not vaccinated. The spread was contained, and there were no deaths.'Bobbing and weaving' with the flu bug Vaccinating the "herd" at a high enough level to protect the most vulnerable is a particular challenge with the flu.It's been easier to achieve herd immunity with diseases such as measles and chicken pox because the vaccines that prevent these childhood illnesses are much longer acting, explains Esper.When you need only a single shot, or a booster several years later, people tend to be more willing to comply with a vaccination, he says.Because the flu virus is constantly adapting to the antibodies the immune system produces, we need a new vaccine each season to combat it."Unfortunately the virus' strategy of how to infect people is to change itself over and over and over again to kind of bob and weave its way through the antibodies, so that none of them works so well," says Esper. "We always have to keep up with the changes of the virus."Reluctance to get a shot every year is part of the reason why national flu vaccination rates are so dismal -- about 40 percent of the country each year -- far below the 80 percent to 90 percent needed to achieve herd immunity and protect the most vulnerable in the population."We're pretty bad when it comes to flu vaccination," says Esper.For certain groups, namely those between the ages of 18 and 49, the rate is even lower -- about 29 percent, says Modie.Ohio vaccination rates for polio and the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccines were about 94 percent in 2010, by comparison, according to the Ohio Department of Health.In the past, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention focused on flu vaccinations for high-risk groups. These include children under the age of 5, adults 65 and older, pregnant women and people with weakened immune systems or medical conditions such as asthma and lung disease that put them at higher risk of complications from the virus.As a result, vaccination rates have reached almost 75 percent in the youngest children (6 to 23 months) and 65 percent in adults over the age of 65."If you get a high proportion of these people vaccinated, which we do a pretty good job of, then we can protect them," says Connors.Still, not everyone can be vaccinated. Children under 6 months are too young and are dependent on immunity from their mothers. People who are allergic to eggs can't get the flu vaccine because the virus is grown inside a chicken egg. That makes it possible for traces of egg protein to remain in the vaccine and later trigger a reaction. People with a history of Guillain-Barre syndrome, a rare autoimmune disorder that causes nerve inflammation and muscle weakness, should also not be vaccinated because the illness can be triggered by the shot."Those are the people who are truly dependent on herd immunity, on everyone around them who can get the vaccine, to get vaccinated," Esper says.And every year, people still die of complications related to the flu, mainly from pneumonia. These are primarily the very young and the very old, and people who have underlying illnesses that make it harder for them to recover from an infection, even if they are vaccinated. Influenza has killed between 3,000 and 49,000 people a year over the past 30 years, according to the CDC. The wide range reflects the variability and unpredictability of the illness.In 2010, the CDC's Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommended universal vaccination for the first time, partly in reaction to the 2009 H1N1 pandemic flu virus, which hit young people particularly hard.Vaccination rates have not risen appreciably since then.The biggest barriers are myths about the flu shot that are as tenacious as the virus itself, the doctors say.Every year, they fend them off with these reminders: The flu shot does not give you the flu. (Though it might make you feel a little under the weather for a while.) No one is naturally immune to the flu. (In fact, 20 percent of the population comes down with the illness every season, making it statistically certain that we'll all be infected at some point.) The flu shot is effective. (But not 100 percent of the time -- nothing in medicine is perfect.)"These [myths] are like urban legends," Esper says. "There's a lot of misinformation out there."So is it possible to achieve herd immunity for seasonal flu? The experts say yes, though it would certainly be difficult."I wouldn't say that we're going to take it down to zero," Esper says. "But what we're trying to do is keep the score really, really low.""If you were able to get 90 percent of the population vaccinated, it would be hard for influenza to take hold in the community," Connors says.So as we enter flu season and you find yourself thinking you're invincible, or the shot is worthless, maybe it's time to think about everyone around you."If you get the flu vaccine, you're not getting it so much to protect yourself as to protect others," Connors says.The wisdom of the herd, if you will.