The Department of Justice issues a report on vaccine injuries and deaths every quarter to theAdvisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines(Click on Meeting Book PDF 12 MB for June 4 meeting). There are 163 cases for vaccine injuries and deaths for the period 2/16/2015 through 5/15/2015.103 of the settlements were listed in this report,giving the name of the vaccines, the injury, and the amount of time the case was pending before settlement.Four of those settlements were for deaths linked to vaccines, with three deaths related to the flu shot, and one death for the Hepatitis B shot, typically given to newborns.74 of the 103 settlements were for injuries and deaths due to the flu shot, and the majority of flu shot injuries were for Guillain-Barr Syndrome.These quarterly reports on vaccine injuries and death settlements from the U.S. vaccine court are seldom, if ever, reported in the mainstream media. We report them here at Health Impact News. Here is the June 4, 2015 report:In November of 2014 the Government Accounting Office (GAO) issued the first reporton Americas Vaccine Court, known asthe National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (NVICP), in almost 15 years. Most citizens of the United States are not even aware that there is something called the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, and that if you suffer harm or death due to a vaccine, that you cannot sue the manufacturer of the vaccine, but you must sue the Federal Government and try to obtain compensation fromtheVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, which is funded by taxes paid on vaccines.This is because Congress gave the pharmaceutical companies immunity against lawsuits for injuries or deaths resulting in vaccines in 1986. Prior to this time, there were so many lawsuits pending against pharmaceutical companies for injuries and deaths due to vaccines, that the pharmaceutical industry basically blackmailed Congress and told them that if they did not grant them legal immunity against the liabilities of vaccines, that they would quit making them. These vaccine products cannot survive in a free market, they are so bad.TheNovember 2014 GAO report criticized the government for not making the public more aware that theNational Vaccine Injury Compensation Programexists, and that there are funds available for vaccine injuries. Therefore, the settlements represented by vaccine injuries and deaths included in the DOJ report probably represent a small fraction of the actual vaccine injuries and deathsoccurringin America today.But even for those families and individuals who are aware of theNVICP, fighting a legal battle that can take years to get access to the funds ensures that many who do file claims never get any of the funds reserved for vaccine injuries. That fund,theVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund,is currently over $3.5 billion, largely because the U.S. Government refuses to even hear cases related to autism which would quickly deplete the fund. (See:How the Government has Earned $3.5 BILLION from the Claim that Vaccines Dont Cause Autism.)Wayne Rohde, author of the book The Vaccine Court: The Dark Truth of Americas Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, explains how theNVICP is no longera viable justice venue for the vaccine injured as Congress intended it to be. (See:GAO Report on Vaccine Court Reveals Vaccine Injured Victims Not Being Helped.)The June 4, 2015 report published here shows a definite increase in compensations for vaccine injuries and deaths from the last report issued on March 5, 2015, and previous reports before then. You can review previous DOJ reports for vaccine injuries and deaths compensated by the U.S. Government here.Investigative reporterSharyl Attkisson, a former CBS Evening News correspondent, recently reported that the government has deleted some vaccine data from their websites.In March, the federal government removed the latest vaccine injury court statisticsmore than a years worth of datafrom one of its publicly reported charts. It was an abrupt departure from the normal practice of updating the figures monthly. Wiping the latest data means the adjudication chart on a government website no longer reflects the recent, sharp rise in court victories for plaintiffs who claimed their children were seriously injured or killed by one or more vaccines. Since January of 2014, twice as many victims have won court decisions than the previous eight years combined. In these court decisions, a judge ruled the evidence showed vaccines more likely than not caused the plaintiffs injuries. Also on the rise is the number of vaccine injury cases the government has conceded: up 55% in a little over one year. As a result of the recent website changes, neither of these trends is reflected on the current adjudication chart.Finding information aboutthe settlements of theVaccine Injury CompensationProgram has also been more difficult to find. Health Impact News used to be able to find the DOJs colorful powerpoint presentations submitted by the government lead attorney,Vincent J. Matanoski, on theU.S. Department of Health and Human Services website by doing a simple search. However, they have not been published there, to our knowledge, since June 5, 2014, and now we have to extract the photocopied black and white version, such as you see above, buried insidethe Meeting Book of the quarterlyAdvisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines meetings.Sharyl Attkisson has reported a similar difficulty in obtaining vaccine injury data from government websites:Guillain-Barr Syndrome is a known side effect of the flu shot, and even just a cursory review of the cases being compensated for vaccine injuries are overwhelmingly for those people suffering fromGuillain-Barr Syndrome. The government wants the public to believe that this is rare, affecting only one or two people for every million flu shots. With about 130 million flu shots administered each year, that would be 130 to 260 cases a year.But just in these DOJ reports alone, we can see over 150 cases awarded compensation forGuillain-Barr Syndrome injuries (including deaths) due to the flu shot. And just a tiny fraction of the population is even aware that theVaccine Injury CompensationProgram even exists.Add to this the fact that most people believe the flu shot is harmless (because thats what most doctors and the government claim), so theywould never associate developingGuillain-Barr Syndrome with the vaccine.What is Guillain-Barr Syndrome? Here is the definition theCDCgives:Compare this to theCDCdefinition for Polio, which is supposedly a vaccine preventable disease:As can clearly be seen by the governments own vaccine statistics, vaccines are both dangerous and deadly. There are many doctors across the U.S. who understand this, and do not adhere to the extremist vaccine positions, that ALLvaccines are good, for ALL people, ALL the time, by force if necessary. The vaccine debate is not a debate between extremist positions, but a debate that in reality looks at the merit of each vaccine, and the impact of the vaccine schedule with so many vaccines being given together. For more information, see:In the video above, Dr. Mark Geier explains the fraud behind the flu vaccine. Dr. Geier is NOT anti-vaccine. He is an MD and has a PhD in genetics. He spent 10 years working at the National Institute of Health, and was a professor at John Hopkins University as a geneticist. He is also the author of over 150 peer-reviewed publications.He worked on vaccine safety and efficacy for more than 30 years. He was one of four scientists that worked to replace the DTP vaccine, a vaccine that caused every child to become sick with a high fever at the time of vaccination, with the DTAP vaccine, which is a more purified vaccine and causes illness due to fever in only 3% of those vaccinated.In the video above, he explains that the flu shot causesGuillain-Barr Syndrome, and that the flu shot is not very effective in preventing the flu. He also explains that the CDC does not follow the law for vaccines in requiring long-term safety testing for the influenza vaccine likethey do with other vaccines, as it is impossible to test a vaccine that changes every year. So the flu vaccine is basically an experimental vaccine that they want to give out to 300 million people every year. There are also no studies showing the safety of giving the flu vaccine to the same person every single year. However, Dr. Geier points out that the CDC is in the business of distributing flu vaccines, because they represent 300 million doses per year, whereas all the childhood vaccines together only number 20 million.Dr. Geier goes on to explain that flu is the wrong thing to vaccinate against because you have to keep re-vaccinating against it every year, unlike childhood infectious diseases, such as smallpox, that are only vaccinated for once. Dr. Geier points out how ridiculous it is spend billions of dollars on a vaccine that might, at its best, save about 50 lives a year, when there are far more serious problems causing death that are more worthy of that kind of expenditure.Canadian physician Dr. Andrew Moulden provided clear scientific evidence to prove that every dose of vaccine given to a child or an adult produces harm. The truth that he uncovered was rejected by the conventional medical system and the pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, his warning and his message to America remains as a solid legacy of the man who stood up against big pharma and their program to vaccinate every person on the Earth.Dr. Moulden died unexpectedly in November of 2013 at age 49.Because of the strong opposition from big pharma concerning Dr. Mouldens research, we became concerned that the name of this brilliant researcher and his lifes work had nearly been deleted from the internet. His reputation was being disparaged, and his message of warning and hope was being distorted and buried without a tombstone. This book summarizes his teaching and is a must-read for everyone who wants to learn the other-side of the vaccine debate that the mainstream media routinely censors.