(NaturalHealth365) As we witness the ever growing agenda for maintaining and increasing immunizations, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) works to create what it calls lasting, effective immunization delivery systems. Yet, the CDC also admits on the same area of its website that there is a long list of adverse, sometimes deadly, reactions to vaccines.CDC, big pharma and other vaccine proponents have pushed a mandatory vaccination agenda by such means as the linking of vaccination requirements to public school admission. But in this race to push pharmaceuticals, the risk of side effects is often downplayed and the alternative, natural means for preventing disease left unacknowledged. Many of these vaccinations are ineffective or quickly lose effectiveness, while putting health and even lives at risk.You need not look very far to learn about the potential for adverse reactions from vaccines. In fact, the same entities behind the push for mandatory vaccination programs also display a frighteningly long list of potentially adverse reactions, many of them serious. Any vaccine can have side effects, states the CDC website. What isnt highlighted is that in many cases, those side effects are expected as often as one out of every two individuals.With information gleaned directly from the CDC website and the labels of the pharmaceuticals themselves, here is a brief look at just 25 of the hundreds of potentially dangerous reactions documented for specific vaccines:1. Permanent brain damage: Diphtheria, Tetanus and acellular Pertussis (DTaP); Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR); Measles, Mumps, Rubella and Varicella (MMRV); Varicella (Chickenpox)13. Inflammation of the stomach or intestines: Adenovirus16. Fainting or loss of consciousness: Virtually every vaccineThe reactions identified by the CDC provide but a glimpse into the multitude of adverse side effects that can occur with the administration of vaccines. Driven by economics, these health risks are downplayed, with big pharma influencing the medical community and government agencies.Despite the documented risks and uncertainties, parents continue to be pressured into subjecting their infants and children to mandatory immunization schedules while the chance for adverse reaction is routinely downplayed. Meanwhile, parents themselves are pressured on the job and by family physicians to get an influenza vaccine each year, despite its side effects and documented ineffectiveness.While adverse reactions are typically downplayed, so is the relative ineffectiveness of many vaccines. For example, vaccine proponents have led the public to believe that the effectiveness of the MMR vaccine is responsible for the dramatic drop in the incidence of measles. However, facts tell us the real factor was the rise in the standard of living enabling people to better their diet, improve sanitation and seek out regular medical care.Meanwhile, recent outbreaks in measles have been traced to vaccinated individuals, making the vaccines effectiveness questionable, at best. Far from the light at the end of the tunnel, the MMR vaccine alone has been linked to a number of serious complications, including death. Two of the original vaccinations had to be discontinued because of extremely high risk of serious complications.Editors note: Gain INSTANT access to the worlds first FREE online summit dedicated to vaccine safety news, infectious disease solutions and the latest advances in immune protective protocols.Register now for the Vaccine World Summit.