If you read the ingredient list of your average flu vaccine, you may notice words like formaldehyde, polysorbate 80, and thimerosal. Some of these ingredients, such as thimerosal, have made news in recent years because of concerns that they may pose health risks. During the last half-century, millions of people have gotten the flu vaccine. Very few of them have had any serious problems. Research overwhelmingly shows that the flu vaccine and the chemicals it contains to be safe. Heres a rundown of the typical ingredients youll find in a flu vaccine, and the real story behind those possible risks.When you get a flu vaccine, you have two options: Inactivated influenza vaccines contain flu viruses that have been killed so they cant cause the flu. Live influenza vaccine (LAIV or FluMist) nasal spray contains a live, but weakened form of the virus. Here are some of the ingredients youll find in the flu vaccine: Many flu vaccines are made by growing the viruses inside fertilized chicken eggs. This means that they contain a small amount of egg protein. A newer version of the vaccine, called Flucelvax, is grown in animal cells instead. Vaccine manufacturers add the preservative thimerosal to multi-dose vaccine vials. Thimerosal prevents dangerous bacteria and fungi from getting into the vial with each use. Thimerosal contains mercury, which can be toxic in large doses. There isnt enough evidence to show the small amount contained in the flu vaccine is dangerous. But if youre concerned, thimerosal-free versions of the flu vaccine are available. Sucrose, sorbitol, and monosodium glutamate (MSG) are used to keep vaccines stable. They prevent vaccines from losing potency, even when exposed to heat and light. Sucrose is the same table sugar you spoon into coffee and sprinkle on berries. Sorbitol is an artificial sweetener thats also found in chewing gum. MSG is a flavor enhancer added to some Chinese restaurant meals. Though certain people are sensitive to MSG, the amount found in the flu vaccine is very small. Neomycin, gentamicin, and other antibiotics are added to vaccines in very small amounts. They stop bacteria from contaminating the vaccine. This emulsifier prevents sauces and salad dressings from separating. In vaccines, polysorbate 80 keeps all the ingredients evenly distributed. Though large doses can cause some people to have reactions, the amount in the flu vaccine is very small. This natural compound is found in household products from nail polish to wood furniture. Its used in the flu vaccine to inactivate virus toxins. In large doses, formaldehyde is linked to eye and throat irritation, and breathing trouble. Most of the formaldehyde is removed from the flu vaccine before its sent to doctors and pharmacies. The trace levels of formaldehyde that remain are many times lower than the amount found naturally in the human body.Most side effects from the flu vaccine are mild. People have reported symptoms like: tenderness, redness, and swelling of the skin around the shot Call your doctor or go to an emergency room right away if you have any of these more serious side effects: swelling of the eyes or lipsA yearly flu vaccine is the single best way to prevent the flu and its complications. Although vaccine effectiveness can vary from year to year, in general the vaccine can reduce doctors visits for the flu by up to 60 percent. Learn more: The annual flu shot: Is it necessary? The flu vaccine will lower your likelihood of getting sick. And if you do catch the flu, its likely to be milder than if you werent vaccinated. The vaccine also prevents serious flu-related complications like pneumonia, bronchitis, and asthma attacks. Thats why its especially important for young children, the elderly, and anyone with chronic health conditions like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), heart disease, and diabetes to get vaccinated.The flu vaccine is very effective, but it isnt right for everyone. Dont get the vaccine if youve had a severe allergic reaction to any ingredient it contains, including egg protein. Learn more: Can I get the flu shot if I have an egg allergy? You also should avoid the flu vaccine if youve had Guillain-Barr syndrome. In 1976, a swine flu vaccine was linked to an increased risk for Guillain-Barr, which causes the immune system to attack and damage the protective coating around nerve cells. Guillain-Barr syndrome causes extreme weakness and tingling in the limbs, known as severe peripheral neuropathy. It can be life threatening in rare cases. There is no clear link between the current flu vaccine and Guillain-Barr. If any risk exists, its very small, affecting about 1 out of every million people vaccinated. The vaccine also isnt recommended for babies under age 6 months, because it hasnt been proven safe in infants. Talk to your doctor if you have a weakened immune system, or if you take medicine to suppress your immune system. You may not respond as well to the vaccine. If youre sick, you might want to put off the flu shot until you feel better.Its always a good idea to talk with your doctor, especially if you havent gotten the flu vaccine before or if your health has changed. If you have an allergy or other condition that might make the vaccine risky for you, check with your doctor before getting vaccinated. Here are a few questions to ask your doctor: Is there any reason why I shouldnt get the flu vaccine? What side effects might it cause? What should I do if I have side effects? Should I get the flu shot or nasal mist?