Whooping cough is on the rise in communities across the United States. The disease can be very severe, even deadly, for babies younger than 6 months of age. Whooping cough vaccines are the best way to prevent the disease and protect the infants in your life. Ask your doctor about Tdap vaccine. Q:Where can I find a copy of my child's shot record? A:You can find a record at the clinic or doctor's office where your child received the shots. If that doesn't work here are some more Q:Why should we immunize against diseases we rarely see? A:We need to immunize against diseases we rarely see because they still occur in other parts of the world and if we stop vaccinating the diseases will come back. Q:Will my child have any side effects from vaccines? A:Most children have no side effects after receiving vaccines, however, some side effects are considered normal, such as mild pain, redness and swelling at the site where the shot is given. However, vaccines like any medicine can cause serious problems such as allergic reactions, although these are very rare. Q:Is it safe for my baby to receive all of these vaccines at one time? A:Yes, babies' immune systems can handle much more than they are exposed to with several vaccinations on the same day. Q:What if we get behind on the schedule? A:You do not have to start over. Simply make an appointment and pick up the schedule where you left off. Q:Can I take my child to any County Health Department to get their vaccinations? A:Yes, you can take your child to any County Health Department in Oklahoma to get their vaccinations. If your child has health insurance that covers the cost of vaccines, we recommend they receive their vaccines from your regular doctor or clinic. However, if your health insurance does not cover the cost of a particular vaccine, the child may receive that vaccine from a County Health Department. A:You can find a record at the clinic or doctor's office where your child received the shots. If that doesn't work here are some more options A:We need to immunize against diseases we rarely see because they still occur in other parts of the world and if we stop vaccinating the diseases will come back.A:Most children have no side effects after receiving vaccines, however, some side effects are considered normal, such as mild pain, redness and swelling at the site where the shot is given. However, vaccines like any medicine can cause serious problems such as allergic reactions, although these are very rare.A:Yes, babies' immune systems can handle much more than they are exposed to with several vaccinations on the same day.A:You do not have to start over. Simply make an appointment and pick up the schedule where you left off.A:Yes, you can take your child to any County Health Department in Oklahoma to get their vaccinations. If your child has health insurance that covers the cost of vaccines, we recommend they receive their vaccines from your regular doctor or clinic. However, if your health insurance does not cover the cost of a particular vaccine, the child may receive that vaccine from a County Health Department. Currently, all vaccines in the routine infant immunization schedule are manufactured without thimerosal as a preservative. As of January 14, 2003, the final lots of vaccines containing thimerosal as a preservative expired. There is no scientific evidence that thimerosal caused any harm to infants.