Aluminum is in almost all vaccines except the flu vaccine. It is a neuro-toxin! There is a lot of misinformation about aluminum and whether or not it is harmful when injected into the body. Aluminum is found in our soil and food now, but just because it is common in our environment doesnt mean that we should just accept that it is healthy and good for us. The truth is that It is not good for us. It damages our cells and is toxic to all life forms. When aluminum in our food is ingested we only absorb about 2% of it and the rest is excreted through the kidneys. But when aluminum is injected into the muscle, as it is in vaccinations, 100% of it is absorbed into the body! It passes the blood brain barrier and causes neurological damage. This can be manifested as ADHD, learning disabilities, mood disorders, and autism, and can affect the entire health of the body.Aluminum is a neuro-toxin and is not a necessary essential element. The reason that aluminum is used to induce an immune response is because it is a toxin! It shocks the immune system into hyper mode and make it overly sensitive to everything, which is why allergies can form. People will dispute this sayingthat certain kinds of aluminum are safe in small amounts. The forms of aluminum found in vaccines are aluminum hydroxide, aluminum sulfate,and aluminum phosphate, and aluminum hydroxyphosphate. I looked these chemicals up on theNew Jersey Department of Health Hazardous substance fact sheet Search page.For starters here is the fact sheet on Aluminum PhosphateAs you can see aluminum phosphate is used in pharmueticals and its on the special health hazard substance list!In the First Aid section above it says:Educate yourself! There is a list of articles, videos, and websites below that will explain more about what aluminum is and what it does in the body.Learn more in this interview by Dr. Suzanne Humphries. She explains what aluminum does in the brain and how it damages brain cells. Aluminum is toxic to all life forms.The Case Against AluminumAdjuvants affect the brain; Aluminum is falsely assumed to be safeAluminum Hydroxide: Another Poison Pediatricians Inject into Babies What happens to aluminum in your body after vaccinationVaccines and brain inflammation; how aluminum affects the brainHow vaccines work and how aluminum and mercury combined are extremely toxicAluminum: The neuro-toxin far worse than mercuryAluminum adjuvants in vaccines: are they safe?A new autoimmunity syndrome is linked to aluminum in vaccinesAluminum in the central nervous system (CNS): toxicity in humans and animals, vaccine adjuvants, and autoimmunityIs eating and injecting aluminum Safe as our regulators say?