Even before you have a baby hell, even if you don't have one you'll hear mixed messages about immunization. The GOP's debating it. Parents likeJenny and Neil Burdettare advocating for vaccines after tragedy struck their 2-year-oldFaye.Celebs from Kristen Bell (yes) to Kristen Cavallari(no) are taking sides. Even the Tribeca Film Festival announced they'd be including a documentary called Vaxxed centered on theCenters for Disease Control and Prevention'salleged cover-upofdata related tothe measles, mumps, and rubella (or MMR)vaccine and autism before removing it from the schedule. (Co-founder of the FestivalRobert DeNiro explainedin a statement that"after reviewing it over the past few days with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community, we do not believe it contributes to or furthers the discussion I had hoped for.")Danelle Fisher, MD, FAAP, chair of pediatrics at Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, California, constantly hears concerns from parents. "Every mom and dad wants their child to be happy and healthy,"she says. "We're raising generations who've never seen small pox or polio, but we do worry about autism and mercury."According tomedical professionals and theresearch, this is an issue thatshouldnotbe up for debate. And if you come acrosswebsites that question the safety of immunization, know that they"aren't based so much on facts as they are on fear," Dr. Fisher warns.Cosmopolitan.com looked intoscientific data andasked experts to weigh in to find the truth about10of the biggest mythsabout kids' vaccines.1. Most kids who get a disease have already been vaccinated.Although there are rare cases where someone gets infected despite getting a vaccine, this is not true for the majority of vaccine-prevented illnesses,says Camille Sabella, MD, director of the Center for Pediatric Infectious Diseases at Cleveland Clinic Children's.Take last year's measles outbreaks, for example."[Most of the people involved]were people who had not been immunized or had been incompletely immunized against the disease,"Dr. Sabellasays.2. The MMRvaccine causes autism.The whole premise for this myth was a flawedreport from a British physician Andrew Wakefieldthat was later retracted by the medical journal that published it. (The doctor also had his medical license revoked.) Even so, it still incites fear in parents."Few topics in medicine have been studied as extensively as this relationship," assures Dr. Sabella. "And the results of all these studies have concluded that there is no link." In fact, there's some evidence that autism may start well before any vaccinations in utero.3. Kids today get too many vaccines, which can make them sick.U.Sguidelines recommend that a child be vaccinated against 14 diseases by the time they're 6. That's a lotof shots, so sure, you may be a little freaked out especially when you're closely monitoring everything your child eats, puts on their skin, or is exposed to.But there's no evidence that the number of antigens foreign substances that trigger an immune system response thatkids are exposed to in all these vaccinations is dangerous, says Dr. Sabella.In fact, kids are exposed to hundreds of antigens every day."Studies have shown that multiple vaccines given at one time is not associated with any short-or long-term effects," Dr. Sabella says.However, every disease for which vaccination is recommendedispotentially deadly.It's a good thingwe have moreresearch and information than ever and thereforean immunization schedulethat canprotect our kids.4. Vaccines contain harmful toxins like mercury.It is true that some vaccines (like the flu shot) do contain trace amounts of mercury in a preservative called thimerosal, butthe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention points out that it's a different type of mercury than what you find in fish. The biggest difference being that it's broken down by the body and eliminated much more quickly.Plus, thimerosal was eliminated from all childhood vaccines in 2001.5. Without vaccines, kids will develop a natural immunity to diseases."Most vaccines actually mimic natural immunity," Dr. Sabella explains. In other words, you're given a mock infection so your body has an opportunity to build protection against future exposure to the disease.Waiting until your child gets the infectionnaturally means putting him at risk for a severe, potentially fatal illness,according to experts at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.6. Vaccines may accidentally infect your child with the disease you're trying to prevent.Certain vaccines, like those for chickenpox,docontain a weakened live virus, but only to stimulate your immune system not to cause the disease they're trying to prevent. True, they may cause a mild reaction, Dr. Sabellaacknowledges, and some people stillcatchchickenpox even after being vaccinated.But if that happens, the illness is typically much milder than what a childwho hasn't been vaccinated would experience and the vaccinatedkid will experience ashorter recovery time.7.There's no reason to get vaccinated according to a specific schedule.Actually, the schedule recommended by the CDC correlates with when kids are most susceptible to certain diseases. For instance, "bacterial meningitis becomes most prevalent at 4 to6 months of life, therefore, it's very important that a child is protected by 4 to6 months of age,"says Dr. Sabella. This protection comes in the form of the Hib(Haemophilus influenza type b) vaccine, which babies initially get at 2months old.Vaccines are also suggested according to when studies show they're safest and most effective. Getting them on your own timelinemay make certain combinations less effective and may result in more adverse reactions,Dr. Sabella cautions.8. Some vaccines can cause Sudden Death Syndrome.Babies less than 6 months old are at highest risk of SIDS. Between the ages of 2to 4 months is also when vaccines start, which has led many parents to worry that the two are related."This is a relationship that's been extensively studied all over the world, and no causal link has been found," says Dr. Fisher.9. The flu isn't bad enough to warrant a vaccination.OK, so maybe you managed to avoid the flu this winter. That doesn't make it any less of a big deal."Influenza is a serious cause of severe illness, hospitalization, and death, even in previously [healthy]individuals," Dr. Sabellasays.Very young children are considered at high risk of getting the flu and may be more likely to have complications.That said, the live flu vaccinewhich is given as a nasal mist (instead of the "killed" virus you get in a traditional shot)is not recommended for kids who have asthma, allergies, or breathing problems, or who have long-term health problems. If your childfalls into any of those categories, talk to your doctor.10. Enough people in the U.S. are already vaccinated. There's no reasonIneed to vaccinate my kids.In the 1940s and 1950s, polioparalyzed and sometimes even killed kids by the thousands.Nowit's quite rare.That's not thanks to "enough" people getting vaccinated. The success of any vaccination program "relies on a very high vaccination coverage rate,"Dr. Sabellasays.If you still have concerns about immunization, bring them to your pediatrician."My job is to help and inform parents," says Dr. Fisher. "We should have the ability to have a rational, two-way conversation."Correction: Aprevious version of this story said the film Vaxxed was pulled for scientific inaccuracies. The festivalactually issued the followingstatement:"My intent in screening this film was to provide an opportunity for conversation around an issue that is deeply personal to me and my family. But after reviewing it over the past few days with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community, we do not believe it contributes to or furthers the discussion I had hoped for.The Festival doesn't seek to avoid or shy away from controversy. However, we have concerns with certain things in this film that we feel prevent us from presenting it in the Festival program. We have decided to remove it from our schedule."This has been corrected.