How CDC Uses False Fears to Promote Vaccine Uptake Recent studies suggest it triggers psychiatric disorders, as well as autism in unborn babies. Yet doctors have been hoodwinked into hawking this as a boon for your health. Avoid it like the plague, because the damage it leaves behind can be permanent, and you'll be holding the bag.And authorities still maintain it's safe, for any age. While you would never take 60 Tylenol tablets in one day, why would you ever consent to a massive dose of this doctor-recommended preventative, on repeated occasions? To make matters worse, there's not even data showing it's safe for the brain and immune system.The human papilloma virus (HPV) vaccine is among the most controversial vaccines on the market. Its effectiveness at reducing cervical cancer rates has been called into question, along with its safety, and now manufacturers may be trying to expand its use by testing it on infants.A new isolation and quarantine rule published by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is scheduled to go into effect in March, but critics have been arguing since the CDC first published the Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM) last August that it is an example of federal government overreach that puts Americans; civil liberties at risk.Is There an Anti-Vaccine Shadow Network? Watch out for the oppressors at work in this current phase of the controversy. They've been waiting for a new open season on your freedom to think and decide for yourself, and they think they have it. But lies, statistical trickery and other deceptions may put the life of your loved ones at risk.Trump Sets Off Media Firestorm With Creation of Vaccine Safety Review Panel He says they're getting away with murder and he's going to do something about it, triggering drug stocks to take a sudden nosedive. He also sent shockwaves through the drug industry and the media when he asked Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to head up this controversial safety review panel.Meningococcal vaccines are recommended by public health officials and, in some states, are being mandated for all U.S. 11- and 12-year-olds, despite rates of meningococcal disease being at historic lows (the declines occurred prior to the routine use of vaccines). New research has now linked this vaccination to a nearly tripled risk of Bells palsy, particularly when given in combination with another vaccine.Your right to personal liberty and informed consent is increasingly being attacked by states looking to remove vaccine exemptions. Texas is the latest state trying to take steps to limit residents right to vaccine choice.Vaccine Failures Keep Mounting When Will Studies Pointing Out Flaws Result in Healthy Changes? Given all these outbreaks, any reasonable person would deem it a failure. So why are people still surprised by the disease? And why do they pawn off the blame on those least responsible? Once you read this, you'll be left in awe by this definition of insanity.