This report on vaccines and autism was published in 2000 in The Vaccine Reaction newsletter published by NVIC between 1995 and 2005 and mailed to NVIC supporters . This report was the first major review of evidence that vaccines can cause acute and chronic brain inflammation leading to neurological dysfunction associated with regressive autism.The connection between vaccination and autistic behavior, first reported in DPT: A Shot in the Dark (Coulter & Fisher, 1985) fifteen years ago and now being discussed in the medical literature, has finally entered the U.S. public arena after simmering for more than a decade. This enhanced public awareness has been fueled by persistent reports by parents in the U.S., Canada and Europe that their children were healthy, bright and happy until they received one or more vaccines and then descended into the isolated, painful world of autism marked by chronic immune and neurological dysfunction, including repetitive and uncontrollable behavior. Conservative estimates are that about 500,000 Americans are autistic but that number is growing daily, with new evidence that perhaps as many as 1 in 150 children are suffering from autism spectrum disorder that can include a range of neurological, behavior and immune system dysfunction.In 1999, as states revealed skyrocketing rates of autism spectrum disorder among children and a congressional hearing was held in the U.S. Congress, the media began to explore the medical controversy in print and broadcast reports. At the heart of the debate stand a few courageous physicians whose independent, multi-disciplinary approach to investigating the possible biological mechanisms of vaccine-induced autism is serving as a counterweight to the steadfast denials by infectious disease specialists and government health officials defending current mass vaccination policies. As scientific evidence reveals that a portion of autism lies on the vaccine injury spectrum, parents determined to find help for their children are turning to doctors exploring diet and immune modulating therapies.Parents of now grown vaccine injured children, who warned pediatricians and Centers for Disease Control (CDC) officials in the 1980s that their once healthy, bright children regressed mentally, emotionally and physically after reacting to DPT vaccine with fever, high pitched screaming (encephalitic cry), collapse/shock, and seizures, are grieving with a new generation of parents whose healthy, bright children suddenly regress after DPT/DTaP, MMR, hepatitis B, polio, Hib and chicken pox vaccinations. The refusal two decades ago by vaccine manufacturers, government health agencies and medical organizations to seriously investigate reports of vaccine-associated brain injury and immune system dysfunction, including autistic behaviors, is reaping tragic consequences today.Now parents of old and young vaccine injured children in the U.S. and Europe are joining with enlightened doctors in a rejection of the unscientific a priori assumption that a childs mental, physical and emotional regression after vaccination is only coincidentally but not causally related to the vaccines recently given. They are calling for credible basic science research into the biological mechanism of vaccine adverse events to develop pathological profiles which will separate health problems caused by vaccines from those that are not; the development of screening techniques to identify children at genetic or other biological risk of developing vaccine-induced health problems; the institution of informed consent protections in vaccination laws; re-examination of vaccine licensing standards; and an end to one-size-fits-all vaccination policies.This, while the U.S. government, the pharmaceutical industry and international corporate interests announced on March 2, 2000 the creation of a new multi-billion dollar alliance called the Millennium Vaccine Initiative (MVI) to vaccinate all of the worlds children with existing and new vaccines, including those being targeted for accelerated development for AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. According to the annual NIH Jordan Report, there are more than 200 vaccines in various research stages. Dozens are under consideration for childhood use. Even as the race to add new vaccines to the routine child vaccination schedule rushes forward, parents, whose children became autistic after receiving existing vaccines, are changing the direction of autism research and the vaccine safety debate.The incidence of autism, like that of learning disabilities, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), asthma, diabetes, arthritis, chronic fatigue syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease and other autoimmune and neurological disorders, has risen dramatically in the U.S. and other technologically advanced countries, while high vaccination rates have caused the incidence of childhood infectious diseases to fall just as dramatically in these countries. Instead of epidemics of infectious disease, there are now epidemics of chronic disease.A University of California study published by the U.S. Department of Education in 1996 found that "The proportion of the US population with disabilities has risen markedly during the past quarter-century . . . this recent change seems to be due not to demographics, but to greater numbers of children and young adults reported as having disabilities." The study concluded that "these changes may be partly accounted for by the increases in the prevalence of asthma, mental disorders (including attention deficit disorder), mental retardation, and learning disabilities that have been noted among children in recent years."After heart disease and cancer, autoimmune disease has become the third leading cause of illness in the United States and in many technologically advanced countries. According to the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology (AAAAI), the autoimmune disease, asthma, is now "the most common disorder in children and adolescents, affecting nearly five million children under the age of 18, including an estimated 1.3 million children under the age of five. Fifty to 80 percent of children affected with asthma develop symptoms before they are five years old." (http://www.aaaai.org).A 1997 study published in Science found that asthma has doubled in prevalence in Western societies during the past 20 years and in the United States causes one-third of pediatric emergency room visits. A 1995 report by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) stated that between 1982 and 1992, asthma increased 52 percent for persons between 5 and 34 years old and asthma deaths increased 42 percent.Another autoimmune disorder, arthritis, is also "on a steady rise" according to the CDC in 1998, which estimated that arthritis now plagues more than 40 million Americans and projected that the number will grow to 60 million by 2020. Cases of diabetes, yet another chronic autoimmune disorder, have tripled in the U.S. since 1958, now affecting nearly 16 million Americans and ranking fourth in the leading causes of death in America. The CDC concluded in 1997 that "the number of newly diagnosed cases of diabetes was almost 50 percent higher in 1994 than in 1980" and did not appear to be a result of the aging of the population.In Europe, a new report issued by the EURODIAB study group (Lancet-2000), evaluated the incidence rate of diabetes from 1989 to 1994 in Europe and Israel and found a 63 percent increase in children under 5 years old; a 31 percent increase in children five to nine years old; and a 24 percent increase in children 10 to 14 years old. They said, "The rapid rate of increase in children under 5 years old is of particular concern." There is no explanation for why adult-onset diabetes, once extremely rare in children, has become more prevalent in American children in the past ten years.In addition to an unexplained increase in autoimmune disorders during the past three decades, there also has been an unexplained dramatic increase in the numbers of minimally brain damaged children who are filling special education classrooms in schools across America.A disability survey of U.S. children under 17 years old in 19911992 published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (August 25, 1995) stated that the "6 to 14 year old age group had the greatest number of disabled people." Learning disability led the way, occurring in nearly 30 percent of all disabled children. A total of 1,435,000 children were listed as learning disabled with another 1,446,000 children reported as suffering from speech disorders, mental retardation, mental or emotional disorders, epilepsy and autism.The 1997 Digest of Education Statistics looked at children 0 to 21 years old served in federally supported programs for the disabled between 1976 and 1996 and found that the numbers of children with specific learning disabilities more than tripled in those years; those with serious emotional disturbances nearly doubled; and the numbers of autistic children served rose from 5,000 in 199192 to 39,000 in 19951996 to produce a staggering 680 percent increase.About five percent of U.S. school children (at least two million children) are now estimated to have attention deficit disorder (ADD) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). According to Sears and Thompson (1998), a 1990 survey of 2,400 practicing physicians showed there were about two million patient visits associated with the diagnoses of ADD and by 1994, it had increased to 4.7 million, with 90 percent of the visits resulting in drug therapy. By 1995, there were 1.5 million children taking Ritalin and in a recent study (Zito, JAMA) it was reported that the number of two to four year olds taking prescription drugs like Ritalin and Prozac rose 50 percent between 1991 and 1995.According to one NIH official, 40 percent of children diagnosed with ADHD have learning disabilities and "anywhere from 20 to 70 percent of children who have ADHD also have conduct disorder" often involving delinquent behavior (www.intelihealth.com). The growing numbers of children with an ADHD diagnosis is cause for concern because, as one researcher observed in 1988: "Adults with a history of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder appear to be over represented in the ranks of felons." (Cowart, JAMA).In his 1990 book Vaccination, Social Violence and Criminality, medical historian Harris Coulter, Ph.D., expands on the evidence he and Barbara Loe Fisher first presented in DPT: A Shot in the Dark and draws parallels between the residual learning disabilities and hyperactive/abnormal behavior caused by complications of disease or vaccine-induced encephalitis and the hyperactive/abnormal behavior and learning disabilities being exhibited by more and more American children.Many children with learning disabilities, ADHD and developmental delays exhibit signs of autoimmune dysfunction, with severe allergies to foods, drugs, and environmental toxins. (Geschwind, 1982; Geschwind & Behan, 1982; Colgan & Colgan, 1984; Boris & Marvin, 1994). In her book, Is This Your Childs World?, Doris Rapp, M.D. documents compelling evidence for the association between allergies, learning disabilities and ADHD.Responding to the concern of a Dad, whose healthy son became autistic following a series of DPT, Hib and MMR vaccinations, in 1998 the California Legislature decided to analyze the history of autism in the state. Rick Rollens, father of two, former Secretary of the California Senate, and co-founder of F.E.A.T. (Families for Early Autism Treatment (http://www.feat.org) and the University of California-Davis M.I.N.D. Institute, persuaded the legislature to fund an investigation by the California Department of Developmental Services (DDS) into state autism statistics after he concluded his son, Russell, now 9, was not the victim of a rare disorder but one that had become quite common in children.Sure enough, in an April 1999 report (http://www.dds.ca.gov) DDS found a 273 percent increase between 1987 and 1998 in the numbers of new children entering the California developmental services system with a professional diagnosis of autism. The report concluded that "the number of persons with autism grew markedly faster than the number of persons with other developmental disabilities (cerebral palsy, epilepsy and mental retardation)" and "compared to characteristics of 11 years ago, the present population of persons with autism are younger (and) have a greater chance of exhibiting no or milder forms of mental retardation. . . ."Although autism has been cited by public health officials and autism researchers to occur in 2 to 10 in 10,000 children nationwide, the Centers for Disease Control in a report released in April 2000 found the incidence of autism in Brick Township, New Jersey in 1998 was 1 in 150 children (the incidence in the Granite Bay, California public elementary school district is 1 in 132 children), which may be more reflective of the true rate of autism in the U.S. today. The Autism Society of America estimates that "more than one-half million people in the U.S. today have autism or some form of pervasive developmental disorder," making autism one of the most common developmental disabilities. (http://www/autism-society.org)After the California report documented the dramatic increases in autism in the past decade, the California legislature voted to appropriate one million dollars to the UC-Davis M.I.N.D. Institute to look for environmental and biological factors, including vaccine use, that could have contributed to this autism increase. At the same time, parents began to check autism statistics in other states.The story is the same in other states. The 1998 Maryland Special Education Census Data revealed that the state experienced a 513 percent increase in autism between 1993 and 1998, while the general Maryland population from 1990 to 1998 increased just seven percent. A comparative analysis of the 16th and 20th Annual Reports to Congress on the implementation of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) conducted by Ray Gallup, President of Autism Autoimmunity Project (http://www.gti.net/truegrit) and father of Eric, who has vaccine-associated autism, showed increases of more than 300 percent in autistic children served under IDEA between 1992 and 1997 in the states of Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma,The brain and immune system dysfunction diagnosed in previously healthy children after viral and bacterial infections or vaccination complications, documented in the medical literature, parallels the brain and immune system dysfunction suffered by previously healthy children who become autistic. But it took nearly forty years for the medical profession to agree that the cause of a childs autistic behavior was not to be found by putting Mom on the psychiatrists couch but by looking in the microscope at the cells, molecules and genes by evaluating the biological basis for the constellation of physical, emotional and mental symptoms which were first called childhood schizophrenia and now have come to be known as autism.In 1943, when child psychiatrist Leo Kanner first described 11 cases of a new mental illness in children he said was distinguished by self absorbed detachment from other people and repetitive and bizarre behavior, he used the word "autistic" (from the Greek word auto, meaning "self.") Pointing out similarities with some behaviors exhibited by adult schizophrenics, Kanner and other psychiatrists assumed autistic children were exhibiting early-onset adult-type psychoses.Kanners young patients came from well-educated middle and upper class families in Baltimore with mothers and fathers who were doctors, lawyers and professors. In 1954, Kanner said, "we have not encountered any one autistic child who came of unintelligent parents." This concentration of autistic children in educated and professionally successful families led Kanner to develop the "refrigerator Mom" theory as the cause of autism, theorizing that the warm maternal instincts of educated working mothers was absent or diminished. Embracing the popular psychiatric, Freudian themes echoed by Kanner, for decades pediatricians were persuaded to blame mothers of autistic children for being cold and emotionally rejecting, causing the children in turn to coldly reject contact with other people.By 1954, Kanner had started to modify his "Blame the Mother" stance in recognition that the brothers and sisters of autistic children were often well adjusted, high functioning children and suggested that the development of autism was also a result of genetic or "constitutional inadequacies" as well as bad parenting. By 1971, Kanner admitted Mom was not to blame.But the damage had already been done. The rejecting parent theme was taken up by psychoanalyst Bruno Bettleheim in various books and articles, such as The Empty Fortress (1967). Bettleheim insisted the autistic child was behaving in abnormal ways in retaliation against a rejecting mother who had traumatized the child by failing to provide enough love or attention.But even as Bettleheims influence was growing, a California psychologist and father of an autistic child, Bernard Rimland, Ph.D., already had taken on the psychiatric establishment which had dominated autism research and treatment. In his landmark book Infantile Autism: The Syndrome and Its Implications for a Neural Theory of Behavior published in 1964, Rimland methodically dismantled the psychoanalytic theory of autism and argued for a biological, specifically a neurological, basis for autistic behavior. He documented the similarities between brain injured children and autistic children, liberating parents from the destructive guilt associated with having an autistic child and pointing autism research in the direction it should always have taken: investigation into the biological mechanisms underlying the brain and immune dysfunction symptoms and their possible causes.After founding the Autism Society of America (ASA) in 1965 and establishing the Autism Research Institute (ARI) in 1967, Rimland began distributing a questionnaire to parents of autistic children. Some 33 years later, his databank includes information on more than 30,000 cases of autism from around the world. In analyzing the data for age of onset of autism, he discovered that before the early 1980s, most of the parents reported their children first showed signs of abnormal behavior at birth or in the first year of life. But after the mid-1980s, there was a reversal of this pattern. The numbers of parents reporting that their children developed normally in the first year and a half of life and then, suddenly, became autistic, doubled. Today, said Rimland, "the onset-at-18 months children outnumber the onset-at-birth children by 2 to 1." (http://www.autism.com/ari)Rimland, like Kanner, noticed early in his research that autistic children often came from intelligent, well-educated parents who were successful professionals in their communities. Upper middle class families in America have always sought out and received quality medical care. Children, whose parents are well educated are the most likely to take full advantage of the latest developments in medicine. This would have been especially true in Kanners day as two miracle drugs of the 20th century antibiotics and new vaccines elevated trust in and reliance upon pharmaceuticals to a new plateau.In the early 1940s, state-of-the-art pediatric medical care would have included a smallpox vaccination plus a separate dose of diphtheria vaccine. In 1944, pertussis vaccine was recommended for all babies. By 1947, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommended routine use of the new combination DPT vaccine. By 1958, Kanners case files contained more than 100 cases of autism.In 1969, M.S. and W.C. Goodwin reported a dramatic upsurge of autism cases in their pediatric psychiatric practice after 1964. By 1964, the well-cared-for American child was getting simultaneously vaccinated with DPT as well as polio vaccine at two, four, six and 18 months of age (the inactivated polio (IPV) was licensed in 1955 and the live virus oral polio (OPV) vaccine was licensed in 1963). After 1959, more than three million children were injected with the combination DPT-IPV shot (Quadrigen) before it was pulled off the market in 1968 for safety and efficacy reasons. By the mid-1960s, many state-of-the-art pediatric practices were also giving babies the new live virus measles vaccine, which had been licensed in 1963 and was routinely used by 1965.By 1979, a combination live virus measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine, which was licensed in 1971, had been added to the routine child vaccination schedule and given to children at 12 to 15 months of age; federal grants were being given to states to provide free DPT, polio and MMR vaccines to children in public health clinics; and the CDC was encouraging states to enforce mandatory vaccination laws to raise national vaccination rates. By 1979, rubella vaccine, which had been licensed in 1969 for use in children also began to be routinely administered to mothers in hospitals after giving birth (Preblud, 1985; Tingle, 1986).In 1988, the CDC added haemophilus influenza b (Hib) vaccine to the child vaccine schedule; in 1991 the CDC recommended the recombinant hepatitis B vaccine be used by all newborn infants and children; in 1993 the combined DPTH vaccine was licensed; and in 1995, the live varicella zoster (chicken pox) vaccine was put on the market.In 1999, the average American child regardless of the parents educational level or ability to pay was being injected with hepatitis B vaccine at 12 hours of age and 1 month; with DPT or DTaP, Hib, OPV or IPV at two and four months; with DPT/DTaP, Hib, OPV/IPV and hepatitis B at six months; with live varicella zoster at 12 to 18 months; with MMR and Hib at 12 to 15 months; with DPT/DTaP, OPV/IPV at 18 months; and with DPT/DTaP, MMR, OPV/IPV between four and six years for a total of 33 doses of 10 different viral and bacterial vaccines by the age of five. National vaccination rates for children under age three have climbed from between 60 to 80 percent in 1967 for DPT, polio and measles vaccine to 90 percent in 1999 for DPT, polio, MMR, and Hib vaccines. Vaccine coverage rates with core vaccines for five-year-old children entering kindergarten have reached 98 percent plus in many states.Vaccination today is not just a medical intervention afforded by the rich and taken advantage of by the well educated but an equal opportunity extended to the rich and poor, the educated and uneducated alike, and enforced in the U.S. by state mandates. Although cases of autism in the 1940s and 1950s were concentrated in the upper and upper middle classes, today the growing numbers of children affected with autism come from all social classes.Inflammation of the brain (encephalitis, encephalomyelitis, encephalopathy) has been documented for more than 200 years in the medical literature to be caused by viral and bacterial infections as well as the vaccines containing altered viruses and bacteria. Smallpox infection can involve brain inflammation with symptoms ranging from fever, vomiting, drowsiness, and convulsions which progress over a period of one to four weeks, sometimes ending in coma and death.The vaccinia virus used by Edward Jenner in 1796 to prevent smallpox was found to cause acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) within one to six weeks of smallpox vaccination estimated to occur in 1 in 5,000 persons. Smallpox vaccination has also been reported to cause a slow, subacute persistent viral infection that can emerge years after vaccination (Adams et al, 1972) and end in death. (The myelin sheath that encloses many nerve fibers helps the transmission of neural impulses and if the myelin sheath is damaged through traumatic injury, metabolic disorders, toxic insult, viral or bacterial infection or vaccination, it can cause degeneration or demyelination).Rabies, a viral disease of the central nervous system (CNS), can take 10 days to a year for the virus to reach the brain but, once it does, encephalomyelitis symptoms include excessive motor activity, excitation, agitation, confusion, combativeness, bizarre aberrations of thought, seizures and other CNS dysfunction. After Pasteur began to inject patients with rabies vaccine in the 1880s, it became obvious that brain inflammation was a side effect. Encephalitis and polyneuritis has been estimated to occur in as many as 1 in 400 vaccinated individuals, with Hemachudha, Griffin, et al in 1987 presenting evidence for an immune-mediated mechanism involving antibodies to myelin basic protein.Within three weeks of even a mild measles infection, one in 1,000 cases can develop encephalomyelitis with signs including fever, headache and drowsiness. Residual brain damage from measles encephalitis ranges from mental and behavior changes, including subtle changes in performance, to seizure disorders and mental retardation. Changes in the electroencephalogram (EEG) have been demonstrated in half of those who have had measles but do not show other signs of CNS dysfunction.Measles virus infection has long been known to be associated with demyelinating disorders. Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) has been reported following measles disease (Lidin-Janson, 1972) and after measles vaccination (Grose and Spigland, 1976). Optic neuritis and multiple sclerosis in children has also been reported after measles disease and measles vaccination (Riikonen, 1989). In 1973, Landrigan and Witte described 45 cases of encephalitis occurring between 6 and 15 days following measles vaccination.Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is a rare subacute encephalitis complication of measles infection which causes slow demyelination of the brain over a one to two year period and ends in death. It has also been reported after measles vaccination (Schneck, 1968). In 1994, the Institute of Medicine concluded that the live measles virus vaccine can cause death from measles vaccine strain viral infection.In 1998, officials of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, Public Health Service (Pediatrics; March 1998) found that a causal relationship exists between live measles vaccine and encephalopathy after analyzing cases of children who received measles vaccine alone or in the combination MMR shot and, within 15 days of vaccination, suffered neurologic signs that progressed to death or mental regression, retardation, chronic seizures, motor and sensory deficits and movement disorders.An outbreak of aseptic meningitis in Brazil has been linked to the MMR vaccine (Am J Epidmiol, 2000). A research team found there was a sharp increase in the number of cases of aseptic meningitis three weeks after a 1997 mass MMR vaccination campaign in northeastern Brazil. The researchers "conservatively estimated" that the risk of aseptic meningitis is 1 in about 14,000 MMR vaccine doses. (A type of brain inflammation involving the meninges, aseptic meningitis can be caused by viruses and bacteria as well as stroke, lead poisoning, and vaccine reactions (Berkow, 1987). Most people recover from aseptic meningitis without damage but some are left with muscle weakness or other motor dysfunction).Mumps has been known to cause meningitis and encephalitis since the eighteenth century. Russell and Donald, observed in 1958 that "the clinical resemblance between mumpsencephalitis and the encephalitis which may follow measles, varicella and rubella, and the fact that the histological appearance of perivascular demyelination are common to them all, suggest that they arise from the same pathological process. The nature of this process is unknown, but it may be a non-specific allergic reaction to virus protein (Miller and Evans, 1953) and similar lesions have been produced experimentally by the injection of brain material with adjuvants (Lumsden, 1949)."There have been many case reports and studies documenting meningitis within three weeks of mumps vaccination (Brown, 1991), and after MMR vaccination (Sugiura and Yamada, 1991), primarily with the Urabe vaccine strain virus. There have also been reports of meningitis after vaccination with the Jeryl Lynn mumps vaccine strain (Ehrengut and Zastrow, 1989) now used in MMR vaccine.Rubella disease is caused by an RNA virus and, although mild in children, it can be transmitted from mother to fetus in utero and cause enchephalitis and devastating harm to the unborn child, including mental retardation, hearing and vision loss, heart and neuromuscular deformity. In the rubella epidemic that swept the U.S. in 1964, an estimated 20,000 to 30,000 children whose pregnant mothers were infected with rubella were born severely damaged and a high rate of classic and "partial" autism was observed in those children by Chess in 1971. In 1977, Chess reported that the rate of autism in children born with congenital rubella from the 1964 epidemic was equivalent to a rate of "412 per 10,000 for the complete syndrome of autism and 329 for the partial syndrome, giving a combined rate of 741 per 10,000" compared to the rate of autism in children without congenital rubella syndrome (estimated in 1966 to be 2.1 cases of autism per 10,000 children (Lotter, 1966).In the 1920s, when a mini-epidemic of "von Economos encephalitis" swept through Europe and America, doctors found that some of those who recovered were left with minimal brain damage including changes in behavior, restlessness, insomnia or disturbed sleep patterns, irritability, short attention span, emotional disorders and seizures. In 1934, Kahn and Cohen described a group of children with the inability to sit still or concentrate, which they attributed to exposure to von Economos encephalitis.Japanese encephalitis can cause permanent CNS changes including personality and behavior problems featuring emotional lability and irritability, speech disorders, hemiplegia, mental retardation and seizures. Chicken pox and mumps infections can, in rare cases, progress to encephalitis and brain inflammation has also been reported to follow chicken pox and mumps vaccines.Poliomyelitis is caused by an enterovirus in which one to two percent of infected individuals develop disease in the central nervous system, and fewer go on to have residual paralysis or die. Likewise, within one to six months of receiving the live attenuated polio vaccine, complications can occur which, according to the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in 1994, can cause Guillain-Barre syndrome as well as vaccine strain viral infection ending in paralysis and death. In both cases, the polio virus invades the CNS and destroys neurons. (Since 1979, the only cases of paralytic polio which have occurred in the US have been caused by the live oral polio vaccine (OPV) and it is no longer recommended by the CDC or AAP, having been replaced by the inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) which cannot cause polio in the person vaccinated or a person who comes into contact with that persons body fluids).But brain inflammation is not only caused by viruses and viral vaccines. Bacterial infections and bacterial vaccines also can cause brain inflammation ending in permanent CNS damage.Encephalitis has always been the most dreaded complication of pertussis or whooping cough, with endotoxin and pertussis toxin in the B. pertussis bacteria responsible for most of it. Pertussis toxin is one of the most lethal toxins in nature and can cross the blood brain barrier when conditions are right. It has long been known that a severe case of whooping cough accompanied by brain inflammation symptoms such as fever, lethargy, vomiting and seizures can be fatal or cause permanent brain damage ranging from seizure disorders and mental retardation to learning, personality and behavioral disorders (Lurie & Levy, 1942).Since the 1950s, scientists conducting experiments have added pertussis toxin to a solution of nerve tissue and injected it into sensitized mice to deliberately induce brain inflammation. However pertussis toxin is also thought to be involved in acquiring immunity to the disease, both after natural infection and after vaccination (Pittman, 1979).Vaccine developers continue to have a problem making a pertussis vaccine that contains pertussis toxin inactivated enough to be safe but active enough to be immunogenic, which is why the purified DTaP vaccine is associated with the same CNS complications as the whole cell DPT vaccine, although they are reported to occur at a much lower rate with DTaP. (The more