Minnesota mom Lesley Doehr plans to have her 11-year-old daughter, Sally, vaccinated against HPV. Her pediatrician recommended it, and after reading up on it and talking to other parents, she believes the benefits far outweigh the risks."If there's any chance of reducing cancer, why wouldn't you try it? That is my bottom line," says Doehr, an assistant regional treasurer for Cargill, Inc. She says she'll probably wait until Sally is 13, "when boys are in the vocabulary.''And, she adds, "It won't hurt matters that there will be a couple more years of research."But Linda May, who lives in suburban Indiana, wonders if changes her daughter Laura has experienced since getting her first Gardasil shot in February 2010 are from the vaccine.May says Laura, a former athlete and star pupil, is fatigued and always achy. Her menstrual cycle is irregular.Laura doesn't complain, Linda says, but the family can see she is not herself. The Mays have spent countless hours talking to doctors. No diagnosis has been made, but a few have theorized that the vaccine triggered an autoimmune response, she says.The family plans to file a claim with the Department of Health and Human Services' National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, which has recorded 88 injury and 8 death claims related to the HPV vaccines and two legal settlements.May is not against the HPV vaccine. But she wants to see it taken off the market until more safety reviews are done. "I know many girls who've had (the vaccine) and are fine," May says. "It needs to be looked at."Gardasil is made by the drug company Merck. Richard Haupt, MD, who heads Merck's adult clinical vaccine research group, says clinical trials and post-licensure trials of Gardasil showed no increase in the rate of autoimmune conditions in vaccine recipients -- and Merck has looked for them.In one surveillance study, Merck pre-specified 16 autoimmune conditions to look for in 200,000 women patients who had received one dose of Gardasil. "We saw no signal of an increase rate of autoimmune conditions," Haupt says.Gardasil, he says, has been shown to be safe in repeated trials."The benefits of vaccination clearly outweigh any risks," Haupt says.