This study provides strong evidence against association of autism with persistent MV RNA in the GI tract or MMR exposure. Autism with GI disturbances is associated with elevated rates of regression in language or other skills and may represent an endophenotype distinct from other ASD.The objective of this case-control study was to determine whether children with GI disturbances and autism are more likely than children with GI disturbances alone to have MV RNA and/or inflammation in bowel tissues and if autism and/or GI episode onset relate temporally to receipt of MMR. The sample was an age-matched group of US children undergoing clinically-indicated ileocolonoscopy. Ileal and cecal tissues from 25 children with autism and GI disturbances and 13 children with GI disturbances alone (controls) were evaluated by real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR for presence of MV RNA in three laboratories blinded to diagnosis, including one wherein the original findings suggesting a link between MV and ASD were reported. The temporal order of onset of GI episodes and autism relative to timing of MMR administration was examined. We found no differences between case and control groups in the presence of MV RNA in ileum and cecum. Results were consistent across the three laboratory sites. GI symptom and autism onset were unrelated to MMR timing. Eighty-eight percent of ASD cases had behavioral regression.The presence of measles virus (MV) RNA in bowel tissue from children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and gastrointestinal (GI) disturbances was reported in 1998. Subsequent investigations found no associations between MV exposure and ASD but did not test for the presence of MV RNA in bowel or focus on children with ASD and GI disturbances. Failure to replicate the original study design may contribute to continued public concern with respect to the safety of the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine.Competing interests: Authors JOL and OS were compensated for expert witness statements concerning MMR vaccine and autism on behalf of claimants in litigation in the United Kingdom.Funding: This work was supported by CDC grant U50 CCU522351 to AAP and by National Institutes of Health awards AI57158 (Northeast Biodefense Center-Lipkin), HL083850, and NS47537. Role of Study Sponsors: Members of the funding organization (AAP) and its sponsor (CDC) participated along with experts in virology and neurovirology, autism pathogenesis, and vaccine design and safety; representatives of the autism advocacy community; and study collaborators in an Oversight Committee that reviewed and agreed to all aspects of study design prior to data collection. The final decision to submit for publication was the responsibility of all study collaborators.This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Public Domain declaration which stipulates that, once placed in the public domain, this work may be freely reproduced, distributed, transmitted, modified, built upon, or otherwise used by anyone for any lawful purpose.Over 20 epidemiologic studies reported no temporal relationship between MMR and ASD [13] [33] , and three studies found no MV RNA in PBMC of ASD children [34] [36] ; however, no published studies from other research groups have addressed whether MV RNA is present in bowel of ASD children with GI disturbances. Here we report independent, blinded analysis of ileal and cecal tissues from children with ASD and GI disturbances and children with GI disturbances but no neurological deficits for the presence of MV RNA in three laboratories, including the one where the original reports of an association between ASD and MV were obtained.Beginning in 1998, Wakefield and colleagues reported intestinal abnormalities, including reactive lymphoid hyperplasia in ileum, in children with autism and other developmental disturbances [1] [8] . These findings, combined with parent-reported associations of timing of onset of behavioral abnormalities with MMR administration, led to the hypothesis that MMR contributed to autism pathogenesis [1] . Subsequent studies from this group reported MV RNA in bowel biopsies and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from children with ASD [9] [12] .Forty-seven children were recruited. Six recruits did not complete the study: 3 potential cases dropped out prior to colonoscopy; 1 potential case and 2 potential controls completed colonoscopy but had incomplete clinical assessments. No differences were found in age, sex, or case-control status between study completers and non-completers. An additional 2 potential cases were excluded for failure to meet diagnostic inclusion criteria (below cutoffs for autistic disorder [AUT] on ADI-R); and 1 case was excluded because no bowel biopsy material was available. The final study population consisted of 25 cases (AUT/GI group) and 13 controls (GI control group) presenting consecutively for ileocolonoscopy who received at least one dose of MMR and completed all study procedures.Age at biopsy was similar for cases and controls [median (interquartile range, IQR), cases, 5.5 (3.0) years; controls, 5.1 (3.0) years], as was the distribution of cases and controls across the three age strata. Girls were older at biopsy than boys (P=0.01). There were no significant differences between cases and controls in their distribution by sex within the three age groups (Table 1).The clinical indications for endoscopic/colonoscopic procedures commonly noted in both AUT/GI and GI groups included recurrent abdominal pain (RAP), gastroesophageal reflux, vomiting, and food allergies. Although the more subjective factor of RAP was frequently present in both cases (36%) and controls (38%), it was rarely the sole rationale for GI examination in either group (1 of 25 cases, or 4%; 2 of 13 controls, or 15%; P=0.27).Median age at receipt of first MMR was similar for cases [15.3 (1.7) months] and controls [16.0 (4.9) months]. The majority of study subjects were in the 35 year age stratum and below the age recommended for second MMR (46 years [37]); expectedly, 80% of cases and 69% of controls received only one MMR prior to the study (P=0.36). Consistent with the older age of girls in the study, there was a trend toward a higher proportion of girls than boys receiving a second MMR (P=0.13). None of the children received MV-containing vaccines other than MMR.Clearance of MV depends on development of adaptive immunity. As cell-associated MV RNA may be present transiently after receiving MMR [38][39], timing of vaccination relative to biopsy was potentially important. Parental reports of timing of MMR receipt 6 months or more prior to biopsy were in accord with pediatric provider immunization charts for the final study population with the exception of one control boy whose immunization record revealed receipt of a second MMR 3.5 months prior to biopsy. This subject was retained in final analyses after determining results to be the same both with and without inclusion of his data. The median MMR-biopsy interval was similar for cases [40.8 (26.7) months] and controls [39.8 (21.1) months], and was not influenced by sex (Table 1). Older age at biopsy was associated with a longer MMR-biopsy interval, independent of case status (Spearman rank correlation, Rho=0.65, p<0.0001).Controls received a greater median number of all types of vaccines than cases [20 (1) vaccines vs. cases, 17 (4); P=0.04, Table 1). Total number of vaccines received was not related to age or sex.The study sample included two sibling pairs; three of these children were controls (2 males, 1 female) and one was a case (male). Data from sibling pairs were retained after determining that patterns of results were unaltered by sibling pair exclusion.Prior to examination of study samples, performance of the four different primer sets (two for H gene, two for F gene) was evaluated for the 12 cloned target regions using synthetic RNA standards. A lower limit of detection of 50 RNA molecules per reaction was confirmed for each primer set in all laboratories. All laboratories correctly identified all positive controls using pre-established criteria for positivity (positive results in at least two of three wells with at least one of the primer pairs for F and one of the primer pairs for H). All laboratories correctly identified all negative controls. Concordance across laboratories was achieved in the initial round of real-time RT-PCR assays for all positive and negative results with the exception of a single study sample, an ileal biopsy from a control. An additional three samples, one ileal sample (from a control) and two cecal samples (one case, one control) yielded signal in at least one assay in one laboratory but did not meet criteria for positivity. All four samples were retested as below to resolve discrepancies. As detailed above, only one sample met the pre-established definition of discordance; in this instance, an ileal sample from a control was positive with all four MV primer pairs in a single laboratory. Neither of the other two laboratories reported positive wells with any primer/probe combinations for this sample. The amplification product from this reaction was sequenced and determined to contain the engineered restriction site, confirming that it represented the synthetic transcript control. This sample was classified as negative. Aliquots of the three other samples that had yielded signal in one assay in a single laboratory were shipped to all three laboratory sites for retesting under new IDs. Two negative and one positive control were included to ensure blinding and monitor assay performance. Repeat testing of these three discordant samples with the F or H gene sequence primer/probe set responsible for the initial single positive finding failed to reproduce positive results in any of the three laboratories on the second round. In all three instances, results were negative on second round testing, including the one laboratory initially reporting positive results for a single primer pair.Analyses in all three laboratories found two ileal biopsy samples with MV F gene and H gene RNA: one from a boy in the AUT/GI group, the other from a boy in the control group. Real-time RT-PCR indicated a range of 27 molecules per PCR reaction, corresponding to approximately 50500 MV RNA molecules per 100 ng of total RNA extract (Table 3). Sequence analysis confirmed that products of these samples were authentic. MV RNA was not detected in cecum of these subjects, or in ileum or cecum of any other subject. The presence of MV sequences was not associated with an AUT diagnosis (cases, 4%, controls, 8%). Both subjects with positive samples had reactive lymphoid follicles (RLF). In the AUT/GI subject, RLF were present in both small and large intestine; the control had RLF restricted to colon. Endoscopy revealed inflammation in both subjects: the case had nonspecific gastritis; the control had acute distal esophagitis. Other cases and controls had RLF and/or inflammation in their upper and lower GI tracts, but MV sequences were not detected in their GI samples.If MMR is causally related to either GI disturbances or AUT it should precede their onset. Similarly, if GI disturbances contribute to AUT they should precede onset of AUT. We approached temporal relationships in the following manner: subjects with MMR administration and GI onset in the same month were considered to have MMR administration before the onset of GI episodes; subjects with GI episode and AUT onset within the same month were considered to have GI onset before AUT onset; and subjects with MMR and AUT onset within the same month were considered to have MMR onset before the onset of AUT. There were no significant differences in the proportion of cases and controls with MMR before onset of GI episodes: 12 of 25 cases (48%) received MMR before GI episodes began as compared with 3 of 13 controls (23%; P=0.13; Table 2). To examine whether the MMR-GI onset interval differed for cases and controls, survival analysis was pursued, using only those children with onset of GI episodes after MMR administration. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed no differences between cases and controls in latency from MMR to initial GI disturbances (Mantel-Cox logrank test). To determine whether our data supported the hypothesis that GI pathology contributes to ASD pathogenesis, we examined the temporal relationship between MMR immunization, first GI episode, and AUT onset. If the putative relationship of MMR to GI pathology and AUT is valid, MMR must precede GI dysfunction and AUT, and GI dysfunction must precede AUT. If GI dysfunction contributes to AUT independent of MMR, it is necessary only that GI dysfunction precede development of AUT. X2 analyses indicated no role for MMR in either the pathogenesis of AUT or GI dysfunction (Table 4). Only 5 of 25 subjects (20%) had received MMR before the onset of GI complaints and had also had onset of GI episodes before the onset of AUT (P=0.03). Number and frequency of AUT/GI subjects receiving MMR before or after GI onset and with index GI episode before or after ASD. Cases first receiving MMR prior to onset of GI complaints were older at index GI episodes [21.0 (22.0) months] than cases receiving their first MMR after GI episodes already began [1.0 (12.0) months; p<0.0001; Table 5]. Conversely, cases with GI episodes preceding AUT onset had much earlier onset of GI problems than cases with initiation of GI episodes after onset of AUT [2.5 (13.0) vs. 30.0 (23.3) months, respectively; P=0.001]. Ages of AUT/GI subjects receiving MMR before or after GI onset and with index GI episode before or after ASD.