ASHINGTON Outspoken vaccine criticRobert Kennedy Jr. said Tuesday that he had accepted a position in Donald Trumps administration aschair of a panel on vaccine safety and scientific integrity, in what would bethe clearest sign yet of the president-elects suspicions aboutvaccines.Kennedys remarks followed his meeting with the president-elect at Trump Tower and immediately sparkedoutrage fromscientists, pediatricians, and public health experts, who fear the incoming administration could give legitimacy to skeptics of childhood immunizations despite a huge body of scientific research demonstratingthat vaccines are safe. Many of those skeptics believe vaccines are a cause of autism.Hours later, Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks said in a statement that the president-elect was exploring the possibility of forming a commission on Autism, but said no decisions have been made at this time.Kennedy was unequivocal about an offer when speaking to reporters at Trump Tower in New York after the meeting. He also said Trump has doubts and questions about current vaccine policies.His opinion doesnt matter but the science does matter and we ought to be reading the science and we ought to be debating the science, Kennedy said. And that everybody ought to be able to be assured that the vaccines that we have hes very pro-vaccine, as am I but theyre as safe as they possibly can be.In an interview with Science, Kennedy said there would be about a dozen people on the panel, a mix between science people and prominent Americans.Asked when the panel would be convened, Kennedy said: We didnt talk about the details but [Trump] expressed urgency about it that he wanted it done. We talked about a one-year commitment.Newt Gingrich, the former speaker of the House who has been advising the president-elect on health matters, previously blasted Kennedy for his criticism of vaccine safety in his book, To Save America: Stopping Obamas Secular Socialist Machine.Perhaps no anti-scientific argument is more dangerous today than the claim put forward by radical environmentalists, most notably Robert F. Kennedy Jr., that childhood vaccinations can cause autism, Gingrich wrote in the 2010 book. Numerous peer-reviewed studies have disproved this connection.Reached by phone on Tuesday, Gingrich backed away from his earlier criticism of Kennedy. As long as the panel is appropriately organized and has a realistic, scientific basis, he said, Im very comfortable with him taking the position.I think if he is prepared to sit down with scientists, he may challenge them and they may change his mind, Gingrich said, in which case nobody would be more powerful in changing the minds of anti-vaccination advocates.Kennedy has repeatedly questioned the safety of vaccines and advanced arguments that there is a link between the immunizationsand autism. He has suggested that thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative used in vaccines, can be harmful to children, a notion that has been widely debunked.Public health agencies did suggest manufacturers eliminate or reduce the amount of thimerosal in childhood vaccines and many have done so. Buta number of studies have also discredited the idea that thimerosal isa cause of autism.Scott Badesch, president of the Autism Society, a patient advocacy group, said the long debate over autism should be at an end.Theres been a long discussion as to whether vaccines cause autism, he said. Everything suggests there is no link.That he [Trump] meets with people doesnt surprise me, said Dr. Paul A. Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center at Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia. That he would take this next step, which is to take a man who has no expertise about science or vaccines and make him the head of a vaccine safety committee is truly amazing to me.Kennedys work on autism has created controversy over the years.In 2005 he wrote an expose, co-published bySalonandRolling Stone, contending that scientists were hiding the link between thimerosal and autism. Years later, Salon retracted the story, noting its basic thesis was inaccurate.But Kennedy was not finished with the subject. He edited a 2014 book called Thimerosal: Let the Science Speak: The Evidence Supporting the Immediate Removal of Mercury a Known Neurotoxin from Vaccines. The volume makes the case that thimerosal is still causing autism and other neurological problems, and should be eliminated worldwide.While Trumps casual remarks on vaccines have alarmed public health advocates, they have energized the anti-vaccination movement. He met over the summer withAndrew Wakefield, a former medical doctor who wrote a well-publicized study that kicked off the movement. Wakefields study was later discredited and his medical license was revoked.During the presidential campaign, Trump said he wants smaller doses over a longer period of time. He has previously tweeted: Healthy young child goes to doctor, gets pumped with massive shot of many vaccines, doesnt feel good and changes AUTISM. Many such cases!Kennedy is the son of the former attorney general and nephew of the late President John F. Kennedy.This story has been updated to correct the date of the meeting between Trump and Kennedy and to includethe statement from Trump spokeswoman Hope Hicks.