Donald Trump may create acommittee on autism, his transition team said Tuesday, after vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr. said Trump had askedhim to lead a panelon immunization safety in a meeting at Trump Tower in New York. The Trump team said the president-elect had enjoyed his discussion with Kennedy but had made no decisions on the matter.Kennedy,son of the late U.S. senator, attorney general, and presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy,has sought to link childhood vaccinations to autism, focusing on the preservative thimerosal, which contains mercury and was once widely used in vaccines. There is no such link, according to a broad scientific consensus. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, for example, has said there is no convincing evidence of harm caused by the small doses of thimerosal preservative in influenza vaccines.Here are a few things Kennedy has written, said, and done about vaccines over the years.In 2015, before a vote on immunization requirements for Oregons schools, Kennedyinvited Oregon state senators to a private screening of Trace Amounts, a documentary about the alleged dangers of thimerosal. Later,at a screening of the film in Sacramento, California, hecalled the use of vaccines a holocaustand said, They get the shot, that night they have a fever of 103, they go to sleep, and three months later their brain is gone.In 2014, hepublishedThimerosal: Let the Science Speak. The Evidence Supporting the Immediate Removal ofMercurya Known Neurotoxinfrom Vaccines.In 2011, Salon.com, a liberal online news site, took an unusual step: It retractedDeadly Immunity, a story by Kennedy it had published six years earlier with Rolling Stone magazine, in which Kennedy sought to link thimerosal with autism. In a note on the site, Kerry Lauerman, then editor in chief, explained his decision:In the days after running Deadly Immunity, we amended the story with five corrections (which can still be foundlogged here) that went far in undermining Kennedys expos. At the time, we felt that correcting the piece and keeping it on the site, in the spirit of transparency was the best way to operate. But subsequent critics, including most recently, Seth Mnookin in his bookThe Panic Virus,further eroded any faith we had in the storys value. Weve grown to believe the best reader service is to delete the piece entirely.In 2010, Kennedy published a story on the Huffington Postciting leading independent scientists who have accused [the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention] of concealing the clear link between the dramatic increases in mercury-laced child vaccinations beginning in 1989 and the epidemic of autism. He didnt name the scientists.Mnookin, thePanic Virusauthor,took to Twitter almost immediately in response to Tuesdays news.