A single vaccine given to a six-pound newborn is the equivalent of giving a one-hundred-eighty-pound adult thirty vaccinations on the same day, states Boyd Haley, PhD, toxicologist and retired professor of chemistry at the University of Kentucky. No wonder many physicians and other health practitioners are reporting a growing number of children and young adults experiencing neurological problems such as seizures and loss of eye contact, and dermatological symptoms like eczema after receiving vaccines.There are a number of factors to consider when it comes to supporting a child injured from vaccines. Among these are providing a high quality diet to heal the mucous membranes of the gut and blood-brain barrier, addressing nutritional deficiencies, supporting the bodys structural function and assisting the bodys organs of elimination through proper and gentle drainage and detoxification. The modalities presented in this article should be implemented under the care of a qualified health care practitioner.There are numerous theories on why vaccine damage is increasing. Many believe vaccine injuries, such as the onset of autism, are simply genetic occurrences. Some point to the potential toxicity of the actual adjuvants in the vaccines. Ingredients such as aluminum phosphate or hydroxide, mercury-containing thimerosal, formaldehyde, antibiotics and monosodium glutamate (MSG), to name a few, have questionable safety when injected in the very young and in multiple dosages. Aluminum has replaced mercury as the most commonly used additive, even though trace amounts of mercury may remain, and research confirms that aluminum is equally neurotoxic.Defenders of vaccination claim that we are simply diagnosing autism and other neurological disorders much better today due to better access to medical technology. However, seasoned educators across the country, those who have consistently worked with children for decades, agree that we are clearly seeing a rise in both autism and learning challenges among children. According to the Centers for Disease Control, one in forty-two boys and one in sixty-eight children in America has autism spectrum disorder.Many scientists believe vaccine reactions follow early insult to the developing immune system of babies and toddlers. And a growing number agree with Stephanie Seneff, PhD, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who has pointed out that the pervasive presence of glyphosatethe branded ingredient in Monsantos herbicide Roundupin the food system along with widespread sulfur deficiencies in pregnant mothers, is wreaking havoc on developing methylation and sulfation pathways of babies in the womb. This compromises the babys immune system and leaves him unable to break down the vaccine ingredients adequately, which require methylation and sulfation by the liver. This environmental toxicity is linked to the toxic use of Roundup, which is pervasive in the commercial food chain, along with nutritional deficiencies of sulfur and other nutrients. Recent evidence indicates that autism is a disorder of the nervous and the immune systemsresulting from impaired sulfate metabolism, affecting multiple metabolic pathways.Twenty-seven years ago, renowned osteopathic doctor Viola Frymann stated that the modern child is in such a state of weakened health due to poor nutrition, overexposure to environmental toxins and poor body mechanics, that the vaccines can be the straw that breaks the camels back. I believe Dr. Frymanns thoughts best summarize the challenge that we face.Setting aside the ongoing debate about causative agents and whether or not vaccines are the sole culprit in creating the ensuing issues, the fact remains that we are seeing children with loss of speech or speech regression, loss of eye contact, self-stimulating behavior, and many more neurological symptoms, which, according to their parents (and many doctors) began within days of receiving one or more vaccines. The challenge is to support these children in a way that allows their bodies to process the influx of foreignand toxicchemicals. Early intervention is always best. Unfortunately solutions are not a one-size-fits-all remedy but rather an integration of several modalities.In most cases of vaccine injury, my colleagues and I start by addressing general nutritional deficiencies by using the GAPS Diet. I ask that all our clients read Gut and Psychology Syndrome by Natasha Campbell-McBride, MD. I also suggest The Heal Your Gut Cookbook by Hilary Boynton and Mary Brackett for recommendations on how to implement the GAPS Diet in a delicious way. Eventually most children are able to move into a more varied Nourishing Traditions (Sally Fallon Morell) diet that includes properly prepared grains. We work individually and through group classes to teach our clients how to prepare the traditional foods that make up a key component of their program. We also suggest they watch the videos available by health educator and blogger Sarah Pope, on the website of the Weston A. Price Foundation.Chief among nutritional deficiencies common in cases of vaccine injuries is vitamin A. True vitamin A, found only in the animal kingdom, plays a key role in assisting the body in fighting infection. Vaccines deplete the bodys stores of vitamin A, so children receiving vaccines are especially deficient. A study of sixty autistic children suggests that the pertussis toxin found in the DTaP vaccine interferes with retinoid receptors in the brain in genetically at-risk children. This toxin separates the G-alpha protein from retinoid receptors. Those most at risk report a family history of at least one parent with a pre-existing G-alpha protein defect, including night blindness, pseudo-hypoparathyroidism or adenoma of the thyroid or pituitary gland. Natural vitamin A helps reconnect retinoid receptors critical for vision, sensory perception, language processing and attention in autistic children. To ensure bioavailable vitamin A, a daily dose of Green Pasture fermented cod liver oil is advisable. Additional dietary sources of vitamin A are found in beef, chicken, duck, goose and lamb liver as well as egg yolks.Vitamin C also is an important player for those injured by vaccines. Vitamin C is best known for its antioxidant effect. It can safely be used before and after vaccines to minimize the inevitable oxidative stress that affects biomolecules when toxins are injected into the body. Vitamin C has also been shown to neutralize the toxic nature of mercury (thimerosal). Those choosing to vaccinate would be wise to give vitamin C before and after injections as it helps protect the kidneys from damage due to exposure to mercury.After years of study in New South Wales, where aboriginal children experienced an unusually high mortality rate after receiving immunizations, Archie Kalokerinos, MD, realized that the aboriginal people were very low in vitamin C. Dr. Kalokerinos began supplementing the children with relatively high dosages of vitamin C before and after vaccinations. The result was a greatly lowered death rate associated with vaccines among the aboriginal children.My preference is to utilize liposomal vitamin C such as QuickSilver Scientifics Etheric Vitamin C or food-based vitamin C from Standard Process or the Synergy Company. Giving vitamin C in a food-based form prevents deficiencies of copper and other co-factors found in the whole C complex, which can arise when giving high dosages of the isolated fractions of the C complex.Due to a myriad of toxic environmental exposures (including prenatal exposures), more and more individuals are found to have defects in their ability to methylate certain B vitamins properly. The best source of easily absorbable B vitamins, especially B12 and folate, is liver. Liver can be taken supplementally in desiccated form or enjoyed in dishes such as liver pt, liver and onions, frozen and grated into smoothies or vegetable juices, as well as combined with carne asada topped with salsa and guacamole. There are plenty of creative ways to get liver into the diet.In addition to the above-mentioned vitamins, it is wise to make sure those suffering from vaccine injuries are replete in minerals and trace minerals. Dietary and supplemental minerals in the body assist it in displacing and ridding itself of toxic minerals like mercury and aluminum. Daily inclusion of homemade bone broth and Celtic sea salt are ideal choices for re-mineralization. Original Quinton minerals provide an excellent supplement for restoring the bodys mineral reserves.The next step is to eliminate all toxic chemicals used in the home and lawn, in personal care products and cleaning products. Ive created a list of preferred products, at biodynamicwellness. com. All bedding and clothing should also be non-toxic. Children should wear clothing made from natural fibers like cotton, linen or silk. Bed linens should also be of non-toxic, natural, breathable materials.It is important to establish a good to great relationship with an experienced qualified cranial sacral practitioner. Such a practitioner should be able to offer proper support before and after immunizations for those who choose to vaccinate, as well as offer remediation for those suffering from side effects from the vaccines. I have observed much benefit through cranial sacral osteopathic treatments from birth and especially for those injured from immunizations. Chiropractors specializing in neurological chiropractic care can also be very supportive and should be considered.Osteopathic treatment facilitates improved neurologic function by resolving the effects of compressive forces acquired in utero or during birth. One of the most significant ways to address poor body mechanics early in life is through osteopathic manipulative treatment from a well-trained cranial-sacral osteopathic physician. As explained by Jorge Moreno, DO, in Montebello, California, Osteopathic manipulative treatment supports neurophysiology as well as the biomechanics of the body, allowing the whole system to function to its full capacity. Homeostasis is always the goal. Dr. Moreno works successfully with many vaccine-injured children using osteopathic manipulative treatments and drainage therapies for elimination of toxins.An essential aspect of supporting injuries from vaccines involves gentle drainage, which allows all the emunctories (organs of elimination) to more safely and adequately eliminate toxins stored in various tissues of the body and repair damaged cells. Each of our magnificently designed bodies possesses an innate drive towards healing and functionality. Drainage remedies offer the body the opportunity to regenerate and restore cellular function. Biotherapeutic drainage is a process that varies with each person and takes time. For optimal results it is important to work with a well-trained practitioner when using drainage remedies and to be on a nutrient-dense diet, having removed all known obstacles to healing. To learn more about identifying and removing obstacles that block healing, I highly recommend reading Radical Medicine by Louisa Williams, DC, ND.Dr. Grard Guniot was a pioneer in the field of drainage. He was a French physician, later practicing in Belgium, who trusted in the healing power of nature and used homeopathic remedies to treat all of his patientswith tremendous success. He worked with remedies that are understood to encourage cellular growth and intercellular connection, focusing around brain tissues and brain functions. Numerous doctors and practitioners, including Jorge Moreno, DO, Mikhael Adams, ND, Robert Abel, ND, and Dickson Thom, ND, incorporate Dr. Guniots principles into their treatment of patients with vaccine injuries. I have found these principles and associated remedies to be extremely supportive in my practice when addressing vaccine injuries as well as a myriad of other acute and chronic disorders.Lastly, therapies that directly support the skin can be extremely beneficial. Specialized mudpacks using a variety of therapeutic clays placed over the vaccine site, as well as the liver and kidneys, are another useful tool for assisting the body in drawing out toxicity. Soaking baths using clay, Epsom salt, baking soda, magnesium flakes and Celtic sea salt are additional tools for easing the process of healing.As mentioned above, the sooner an issue is addressed after its onset, the more clear the picture and the more expedient the process. Above all, maintaining a hopeful and positive attitude on behalf of those who are suffering is vital. We must believe in the power of our bodies to heal. We must also be strong enough to think for ourselves and not rely on big industry to tell us what is best for us and for those we love. Love is our most powerful tool. It drives us to amazing feats. May it drive us to be instruments of healing in this world.DRAINAGE FOR VACCINATION DAMAGE So what exactly is drainage? And what isnt it? Drainage is not the same as detoxification. Detoxification typically involves therapies designed to eliminate specific toxins from particular organs, such as a parasite cleanse, a colon cleanse or a heavy metal detox for the liver or kidneys. Drainage takes into consideration the individuals metabolic status, his level of health and vitality, as well as degeneration, and the function of the persons main emunctories (organs and tissues of toxin elimination), which include the liver and gallbladder, the kidneys, the intestinal tract, the lungs and the skin. The secondary emunctories are all the mucosal membranes of the body. These tissues act as eliminatory routes when the primary organs are overwhelmed or inefficient in their function. They basically become back-up drainage systems for the body.Any therapy that encourages the body to eliminate toxins can be considered a drainage therapy. This includes saunas, Epsom salt baths and all forms of hydrotherapy and massage; however, biotherapeutic drainage is generally thought of as comprising botanical and homeopathic (single and complex) remedies. Homeopathy originated with German doctor Samuel Hahnemann in 1789. In the 1920s Dr. Antoine Nebel, a Swiss physician, refined Hahnemanns work into a protocol that eventually became known as drainage. Dr. Nebel used nosode remedies, which are strong homeopathic remedies that mobilize the immune system to address disease. He then added secondary remedies to target specific organs or tissues, making the process gentler. Through the work of others such as Vannier, Discry and Ruetter, drainage remedies expanded to what we now have through homeopathic companies, such as UNDA in Belgium. UNDA Numbered Compounds combine Chinese medicine, homeopathy and oligo elements (minerals) to create gentle but powerful drainage remedies that can be used by all ages.Grard Guniot, medical doctor and homeopath, developed what was called the brain protocol. Dr. Guniot taught that the brain has four stages of maturity and that each stage corresponds with the development of the primary endocrine glands. The first stage, known as the adrenal phase, develops between conception and eighteen months of age; the second stage, the thyroid phase, matures between eighteen months and seven years of age; the pituitary phase, the third phase, completes development at puberty; and the fourth stage, the gonadal phase, takes place between puberty and about twenty years of age. Injuries, emotional traumas, toxic exposures and serious illnesses can disrupt the otherwise normal healthy process of brain and endocrine growth and development. Dr. Guniot understood that human development was initiated through various hormonal surges. For instance, the release of the pituitary hormone oxytocin begins the birthing process. It is also the surge of pituitary hormones that later initiate puberty. Digestive processes are also dependent upon hormone secretions, just as other processes are stimulated by the release of adrenal hormones and thyroid hormones. Guniot concluded that a very strong interconnectedness links the development of the glands, digestive organs, nervous system and the resultant immune function.Dr. Guniots protocol aims to restore function that has been disrupted. It incorporates gentle drainage using UNDA Numbered Compounds along with organotherapy and cell salts, after sufficient preliminary drainage and nutrition has been implemented. His brain protocol offers a key piece of the process of remediating injury from toxic exposures.And lastly, a favorite drainage therapy is gemmotherapy. Gemmotherapy, also known as plant stem cell therapy, was developed in the mid-1900s by Pol Henry, a Belgium physician, and further developed by Max Tetau, MD. Gemmotherapy utilizes the embryonic portions (rootlets, buds, sap or bark) of botanicals. These potent remedies have the ability not only to decongest organs and encourage tissues to release toxins, but also contain very regenerative qualities that restore function to tissues and organs. Gemmotherapy is very compatible with constitutional remedies. For more details about the use of gemmotherapy and other drainage remedies please see Dr. Louisa Williams excellent book, Radical Medicine.This article appeared in Wise Traditions in Food, Farming and the Healing Arts, the quarterly journal of the Weston A. Price Foundation, Summer 2015