Vaccinating children for travel requires careful evaluation. Whenever possible, children should complete the routine immunizations of childhood on a normal schedule. However, travel at an earlier age may require accelerated schedules. Not all travel-related vaccines are effective in infants, and some are specifically contraindicated.The recommended childhood and adolescent immunization schedule is available at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/schedules/downloads/child/0-18yrs-schedule.pdf. The catch-up schedule for children and adolescents who start their vaccination schedule late or who are >1month behind can also be accessed at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/schedules/downloads/child/catchup-schedule-pr.pdf. This table also describes the recommended minimum intervals between doses for children who need to be vaccinated on an accelerated schedule, which may be necessary before international travel.Country-specific vaccination recommendations and requirements for departure and entry vary over time. For example, at the time of this publication, proof of yellow fever vaccination is required for entry into certain countries. Meningococcal vaccination is required for travelers entering Saudi Arabia for the annual Hajj. The World Health Organization issued temporary vaccination requirements for residents of and long-term visitors to countries with active wild poliovirus transmission. Clinicians should check the CDC website for up-to-date requirements and recommendations (www.cdc.gov/travel).Additional information about diseases and routine vaccination is available in the disease-specific sections in Chapter 3. Interactive tools for determining routine and catch-up childhood vaccination are available at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/schedules/hcp/child-adolescent.html.Several factors influence recommendations for the age at which a vaccine is administered, including age-specific risks of the disease and its complications, the ability of people of a given age to develop an adequate immune response to the vaccine, and potential interference with the immune response by passively transferred maternal antibodies.The routine immunization schedules for infants and children in the United States do not provide specific guidelines for those traveling internationally before the age when specific vaccines and toxoids are routinely recommended. Recommended age limitations are based on potential adverse events (yellow fever vaccine), lack of efficacy data or inadequate immune response (polysaccharide vaccines and influenza vaccine), maternal antibody interference (measles-mumps-rubella [MMR] vaccine), or lack of safety data. In deciding when to travel with a young infant or child, parents should be advised that the earliest opportunity to receive routinely recommended immunizations in the United States (except for the dose of hepatitis B vaccine at birth) is at age 6weeks.Children should receive routine vaccination for hepatitis Avirus; hepatitis B virus; diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis; Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib); human papillomavirus; influenza; MMR; Neisseria meningitidis; polio; rotavirus; Streptococcus pneumoniae; and varicella. In order to complete vaccine series before travel, vaccine doses can be administered at the minimum intervals. Parents should be informed that infants and children who have not received all recommended doses might not be fully protected. Rotavirus vaccine is unique among the routine vaccines given to US infants because it has maximum ages for the first and last doses; specific consideration should be given to the timing of an infants travel so that the infant will still be able to receive the vaccine series, if at all possible.Japanese encephalitis (JE) virus is transmitted by mosquitoes and is endemic throughout Asia. The risk can be seasonal in temperate climates and year-round in more tropical climates. The risk to short-term travelers and those who confine their travel to urban centers is low. JE vaccine is recommended for travelers who plan to spend a month or longer in endemic areas during the JE virus transmission season. JE vaccine should be considered for short-term (<1month) travelers whose itinerary or activities might increase their risk for exposure to JE virus. The decision to vaccinate a child should follow the more detailed recommendations in Chapter 3, Japanese Encephalitis.An inactivated Vero cell culture derived JE vaccine (Ixiaro [Valneva]) was licensed by the Food and Drug Administration in 2009 for use in the United States for travelers aged 17years. In 2013, the recommendations were expanded and the vaccine was licensed for use in children starting at age 2months.The primary series is 2 intramuscular doses administered 28days apart. Information on age-appropriate dosing is available at www.cdc.gov/japaneseencephalitis/vaccine/vaccineChildren.html. For people aged 17years, ACIP recommends that if the primary series was administered >1year previously, a booster dose may be given before potential JE virus exposures. Although studies are being conducted on the need for a booster dose following a primary series of Ixiaro in children, data are not yet available.Rabies virus causes an acute viral encephalitis that is virtually 100% fatal. Traveling children may be at increased risk of rabies exposure, mainly from dogs who roam the streets in developing countries. Bat bites carry a potential risk of rabies throughout the world. There are 2 strategies to prevent rabies in humans:For children who have not received preexposure immunization and may have been exposed to rabies, a weight-based dose of human rabies immune globulin and a series of 4 rabies vaccine injections are required on days 0, 3, 7, and14.Typhoid fever is caused by the bacterium Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi. Vaccination is recommended for travelers to areas where there is a recognized risk of exposure to SalmonellaTyphi.Two typhoid vaccines are available:Vi capsular polysaccharide vaccine (ViCPS) administered intramuscularly and oral live attenuated vaccine (Ty21a). Both vaccines induce a protective response in 50%80% of recipients. The ViCPS vaccine can be administered to children who are aged 2years, with a booster dose 2years later if continued protection is needed. The Ty21a vaccine, which consists of a series of 4 capsules (1 taken every other day) can be administered to children aged 6years. Abooster series for Ty21a should be taken every 5years, if indicated. The capsule cannot be opened for administration but must be swallowed whole. All 4 doses should be taken 1 week before potential exposure.Yellow fever, a disease transmitted by mosquitoes, is endemic in certain areas of Africa and South America (see Maps 3-15 and 3-16). Proof of yellow fever vaccination is required for entry into some countries (see Chapter 3, Yellow Fever & Malaria Information, by Country). Infants and children aged 9months can be vaccinated if they travel to countries within the yellow feverendemic zone. More information, including how to access yellow fever vaccine in the United States, is available in Chapter 3, Yellow Fever.Infants aged <9months are at higher risk for developing encephalitis from yellow fever vaccine, which is a live virus vaccine. Studies conducted during the early 1950s identified 4 cases of encephalitis out of 1,000 children aged <6months vaccinated with yellow fever vaccine. An additional 10 cases of encephalitis associated with yellow fever vaccine administered to infants aged <4months were reported worldwide during the1950s.Travelers with infants aged <9months should be advised against traveling to areas within the yellow feverendemic zone. ACIP recommends that yellow fever vaccine never be given to infants aged <6months. Infants aged 68months should be vaccinated only if they must travel to areas of ongoing epidemic yellow fever and if a high level of protection against mosquito bites is not possible. Clinicians considering vaccinating infants aged 68months may contact their respective state health departments or CDC toll-free at 800-CDC-INFO (800-232-4636) or www.cdc.gov/cdc-info/requestform.html.