Previous models of HCV vaccines have either not considered concurrent vaccination and treatment [4345] or have compared hypothetical vaccines to older generation therapies [46]. Here, we have explored the possible benefits of partially effective HCV vaccines alongside highly effective treatments. Our results suggest that even a partially effective HCV vaccine has benefits when used in conjunction with highly effective treatments in settings with medium (50%) or high (75%) chronic HCV prevalence among PWID. In these settings, prevalence reduction targets can be achieved with fewer treatment courses when a vaccination programme exists, which is likely to save on costs. For example, we estimated that in Melbourne, Australia, a 50% relative prevalence reduction could be achieved with approximately 100 fewer treatment courses per year if a 60% efficacious vaccine were administered after successful treatment. With treatment costs in developed countries (including Australia) still either in negotiation or unclear, and in some cases (e.g. the USA) up to US$80,000 a course, combining vaccination with treatment is likely to be a cheaper way to achieve prevalence reduction targets in settings with medium or high chronic HCV prevalence among PWID than treatment alone. In Melbourne, this could occur as long as treatment remains more than five times as expensive as a potential vaccine (Table2). With vaccines for most other diseases costing under US$200 per person [47] this is not unrealistic, even if treatment costs are substantially reduced.Administering vaccinations directly after successful treatment to prevent reinfection would be an efficient implementation strategy. Vaccinating directly after treatment achieved approximately equal additional prevalence reduction as vaccinating similar numbers in the PWID community, and, further, administering after treatment would be relatively simple because the person is already engaged in care with their HCV RNA status known. This would make simple implementation effective: in the previous example, treating 26/1,000 PWID per year would have equivalent effects to treating 22/1,000 PWID per year if vaccinating after treatment.Background chronic prevalence was a more important determinant of a vaccines benefit than vaccine efficacy. In terms of reducing required treatment numbers, a vaccine with 30% efficacy provided greater or equal benefits in a setting with high chronic HCV prevalence among PWID than a vaccine with 90% efficacy in settings with low or medium chronic HCV prevalence among PWID. In many high-prevalence scenarios, a single vaccination provided almost the same benefit as a single treatment course. In these cases vaccinating after treatment would mean that treatment numbers could almost be halved with minimal effect on prevalence reduction.The model had two main sensitivities. First, as the average length of injecting career increased so did the impact of treatments and vaccinations on prevalence reduction. This reflects the fact that in countries where longer injecting careers are typical, there is more time to accrue benefits through these interventions [9]. This is in contrast to harm reduction interventions (such as OST and NSPs), where modelling has shown reduced impact in settings with longer injecting careers owing to the long duration of coverage required to protect from infection [48]. Second, as the duration at high risk, and hence the heterogeneity of the population, increased, (1) the impact of treatments and vaccinations greatly increased, (2) vaccinating after treatment became an increasingly better strategy than community-based vaccination, and (3) the benefit of allocating treatments and vaccinations to specific injecting risk groups increased. The latter two changes were related: as the heterogeneity increased, the high-risk population in the model became more likely to be infected than the low-risk population and therefore more likely to be treated. This makes vaccination after treatment an implicitly more risk-targeted strategy, which in this case has increased benefits.There is some concern that if people seeking treatment are not high-risk injectors, the benefits of vaccinating after treatment may be diluted. The model did not support evidence of this at baseline estimates for heterogeneity, because even the most efficient allocation of treatments and vaccinations across risk groups provided only small additional impact. However, because the benefits of risk-targeted treatment and vaccination strategies were sensitive to changes in duration at high risk, situation-specific data should be considered when forming HCV prevalence reduction strategies. For example, we found that in some settings, in the extreme case where the average time at high risk was the length of injecting career, up to 19% additional relative prevalence reduction would be forgone if treatments were concentrated among low-risk compared to high-risk groups.These estimates are based on a theoretical model and there is uncertainty in the model parameters. Most importantly, we model a hypothetical vaccine of varying efficacy with perfect protection for the entire injecting career. This would require more than 14years coverage, which is consistent with immunology researchers goals. Additionally, although most parameters come from observational studies, they are not specific to one location and may not be relevant to all PWID populations. However, we have explored a range of prevalence settings that we hope characterize the range of epidemics found. The model has assumed no differences between HCV genotypes when vaccinating or treating PWID, because immunology researchers are also aiming for cross-reactive immunity. Implementing combinations of treatment and vaccination numbers simultaneously without any scale-up period may be unrealistic; however, with a vaccine not yet developed and treatment currently available to the public, the approaches governments will take remain unclear. This study only considers how the benefits of a vaccine vary by chronic HCV prevalence among PWID and under various treatment paradigms, and assumes that HCV is endemic before treatments and/or vaccinations are introduced. Further work should consider the history of HCV in particular locations and estimate these relationships using models that are calibrated to the corresponding epidemic curves. This would also allow estimation of how the transmission parameter and R0 have changed over time as a result of changes to risk behaviour, and would improve estimation of the threshold number of susceptible PWID that would need to be vaccinated to reduce R0 to below one and lead to eventual elimination.