For those who wish to vaccinate less and decrease the risk of vaccine related diseases, its important to understand what vaccines are available for your dog and the risks and benefits of each. What follows is a brief outline of the most common vaccines your vet will advocate and the associated risks and benefits of each one. Hopefully this list will help you decide which vaccines your dog should receive, if any, and which ones you should decline.Distemper is a rare but serious viral disease that dogs are still considered at risk from in many developed countries. It affects all aspects of a dogs health eventually attacking the central nervous system causing spasm, seizures and paralysis. The wide variety of symptoms found under this disease classification is said to be due to the distemper virus lowering of the overall immune system which in turn allows for secondary opportunistic infections that produce the diverse clinical symptoms. The virus is thought to be transmitted through the air via infected animals breath, although E. H Ruddock DVM states that all dogs appear to carry the seeds of distemper in their system.Canine distemper is a serious disease and, when treated conventionally, 50% of dogs with distemper will die. Homeopathic vets see much better results however, thanks toDistemperinum. Due to the vast array of clinical symptoms produced by this disease, an experienced veterinary homeopath should be consulted immediately to determine the most appropriate remedy. If the disease is noticed in the early stages, use of the potentised virus by itself may achieve spectacular results (Macleod). Treatment of dogs who have survived distemper but exhibit ongoing symptoms of paralysis and seizure has been found affective and may include the use of such common remedies as Belladonna, Gelsemium, Conium and Causticum.The nosode is generally thought to be the most effective and safe manner of prevention by qualified homeopathic vets. John Saxton MRCV presented research showing the distemper nosodes ability to reduce an outbreak by around 65% in only five days with a reduction from 11.67% infected to 4.36%. When the entire population of the kennels results were analysed, an even higher success rate was reported with a drop from 8.05% to 2.81% (IJVH, Vol.5, 1, 1991).Parvovirus is a common disease that appeared throughout the developed world in the 1970s as a direct result of vaccination. Being a canine form of Feline Viral Enteritis, it is thought that the virus jumped through dogs coming in contact with vaccinated cats infectious stool, or mutated during the production of the distemper vaccine which was cultivated on infected cats kidneys, (very similar reports have been made regarding the polio vaccine in humans). The disease is only of real concern in puppies, as 90% of dogs over the age of 8 weeks will survive infection without complication, with death in mature healthy dogs being almost unheard of. While mature dogs usually only experience a type of diarrhea and enteritis, young puppies are at serious risk of heart failure and chronic cardiac problems.Vaccinated puppies dont respond as well to treatment as unvaccinated puppies. Due to the seriousness of symptoms produced by this disease in young pups, an experienced veterinary homeopath should be consulted quickly to determine the most appropriate remedy. While awaiting a consultation, Aconite 30C can be given orally every two hours. It is critical to avoid dehydration, and if this is feared, China 6C or 30C may be given every hour in a little filtered water.It may be wise to avoid the unnecessary use of the distemper vaccine until it is proven not to be the cause of parvovirus in young puppies. The nosode is generally thought to be the most effective and safe manner of prevention by homeopathic vets. Due to the comparatively risk free nature of nosodes, they can be given at a very early age in susceptible dogs ie, 10 to 14 days old. Experience in practice has shown that this Nosode has given consistently good results and no breakdowns have been reported. (George Macleod) Christopher Day reported a single failure of the nosode in his vast experience in the field with this disease, and even that case, the disease was non fatal and mild.As the name suggests ,this disease is thought to be a result of the over crowding and stress produced by boarding many dogs together in close proximity. In addition to stress, the bordetella bacteria is commonly associated with infection, but as with the human influenza, a broad range of microorganisms and mutations appear to be involved. An irritated, dry and persistent cough are the typical symptoms of this condition. Kennel cough is almost always self limiting.Normally no intervention is necessary, due to the mild symptoms of kennel cough.Although a range of remedies have been successfully employed in the prevention of this condition such as Drosera and Ignatia, the kennel cough nosode has been shown to be very effective and has impressive results, as obtained by DVM Christopher Day in his clinical trials measuring the use of the nosode during a kennel cough outbreak. The results shows minor symptoms were expressed by 42.5% of the dogs, with 59.7% of vaccinated dogs showing minor symptoms, compared to 26.7% of unvaccinated dogs. Thisstudy shows that nosodes can be effective in disease prevention, and when dogs do contract disease, the severity of symptoms can be reduced with their use.Although given a single name, this disease is comprised of over 230 serovars, eight of which can infect cats and dogs. Leptospira are passed in urine and penetrate mucous membranes or abraded skin and multiply rapidly upon entering the blood. The bacterium continues to spread within the body and replicates further in many tissues including the kidney, liver, spleen, central nervous system (CNS), eyes, and genital tract. Thereafter, increases in serum antibodies clear the spirochetes from most organs, but bacteria may persist in the kidneys and be shed in urine for weeks to months. The extent of damage to internal organs is variable depending on the virulence of the organism and host susceptibility.The clinical signs of Lepto in dogs depend on the age and immunity of the host, environmental factors affecting the bacteria, and the virulence of the infecting serovar. Young animals are more severely affected than adults. The majority of lepto infections are chronic or subclinical however lepto can present as a serious, acute condition witha fever of 103-104, shivering, and muscle tenderness are the first signs. Then vomiting and rapid dehydration may develop. Severely infected dogs may develop hypothermia and kidney or liver failure can develop.In subacute infections, the animal usually develops a fever, anorexia, vomiting of bile, dehydration, and increased thirst. Animals with liver involvement may develop jaundice. The dog will also be in pain and be reluctant to move. Dogs that develop kidney or liver involvement may begin to show improvement in organ function after 2 to 3 weeks or they may develop chronic renal failure.This disease is normally quite progressed when symptoms are noticed so it is important that a homeopathic vet is quickly consulted. While awaiting treatment, the following remedies can be selected based on the symptoms or given alternately every 30 minutes for 4 hrs and then every hour while acute symptoms persist: Aconitum N. 12x and Arsenicum A. 30C. (In the event of an emergency any potency can be attempted, although higher potencies should be used with caution. More treatment options are available in this article.The effectiveness of the lepto nosode has been proven in a breakthrough human study. The Cuban government experimented with using nosodes to protect Cuban citizens against leptospirosis in 2007 and found a much greater a rate of effectiveness at a small fraction of the cost of vaccines. They subsequently switched the entire country over to nosodes in place of vaccination by 2010, dosing every Cuban annually. They are now experimenting with homeopathic prevention of other diseases and offering their anti-leptospirosis program to other countries, mostly in Africa.When considering the relative risks and benefits of vaccination, pet owners should consider the words of Judith DeCava in her book, Vaccination Examining The Record,a person not vaccinated has one risk, catching the disease, where a vaccinated person has two risks; catching the disease and damage from the vaccineMany of the diseases routinely vaccinated against can be quite serious and pet owners are understandably anxious to avoid them. Homeopathic nosodes, or homeoprophylaxis, has garnered significant results and attention amongst homeopathic vets and do not carry the dangerous risks associated with vaccination.In reference to his clinical trials on kennel cough, Dr Christopher Day states, What appears to emerge from the study is: a) Nosodes can effectively stop, in its tracks, an outbreak of a highly transmissible disease (viz kennel cough). b) That it does so, in this case, more effectively than the presently available vaccines. c) That vaccination impairs the ability of the animal to respond to the nosode.Thousands upon thousands of pets suffer from vaccine related diseases each and every year, ranging from skin eruptions to cancer and sudden death. Additionally, the effectiveness of vaccination is questionable. Dr Richard Pitcain DVM, homeopath vet, concludes, vaccines do not actually protect populations from disease in the way most people assume though they do seem to modify the pattern in which the acute disease manifests.What I have observed is that if one can look at this question with an open mind, one will be surprised at the amount of evidence that is actually there. If you look at the larger perspective of disease incidence (of any type) in the weeks and months following vaccination, you will soon see confirmations of what I am presenting to you today. And once this is seen, the way is open for you to question the whole edifice.