The list of ingredients for most vaccines is proprietary information this means vaccine companies are not required to disclose their ingredients to the consumer. Therefore, even if the consumer, or the consumers pet, has a reaction to a vaccine, the vaccine the company is not required to divulge the ingredients of the vaccine.One purpose of wanting to know the full ingredient listing is to identify the allergenic cause for that particular pet. As there are multiple brands of vaccines on the market, it might be possible to select a different vaccine, with different ingredients, and thereby avoid an allergic reaction in the animal receiving the vaccine, if the information were available.Most often, it is the rabies vaccine that is associated with reactions in dogs and cats. A typical reaction is swelling at the site of the vaccination. One concern for pet owners is that repeated vaccinations will worsen the allergic response, potentially leading to dangerous anaphylactic reactions. An anaphylactic reaction could actually lead to death of the vaccine allergic pet.In the United States, there are four commonly administered rabies vaccines for dogs and cats.Merial makes another rabies vaccine specifically for cats, Purevax. Unlike other vaccines, its ingredients are specifically listed: sterile water, recombinant rabies vaccine in a Canarypox vector.The majority of rabies vaccines contain mercury additives. These additives go by different names Thimerosal, Thiomersal, Merthiolate, and others. Merthiolate tincture, used by our parents (or grandparents), was used as a topical disinfectant or antibacterial for wounds, scrapes, and cuts. In the late 1990s, Merthiolate and Mercurochrome were removed from the market in the US because they contained mercury. Mercury can be dangerous it is a poison.However, since 1927, Merthiolate, more commonly called Thimerosal, has been used as a preservative and/or antiseptic in vaccines. Through an interesting paradox, topically applied healthcare products containing mercury are considered dangerous; whereas, vaccines containing injectable mercury are considered safe.The relationship between pet health, the use of vaccines, and Thimerosal is complicated. Scott-Moncrief et al. published a study documenting that use of vaccines increased dogs risk of anti-thyroid antibodies; dogs receiving rabies vaccine were more affected than those receiving only distemper combination-type vaccines.[1] In another study, Bellabarba et al. found T4, circulating thyroid hormone, was unable to bind to serum protein; serum protein binding transports T4 to every cell in the body for use at the cellular level.[2] Hypothyroidism it the most common endocrine disease of dogs.Hypothyroidism is one disease associated with vaccinosis in pets. (Dr Becker has a great discussion of vaccinosis here.)To reduce the effects of vaccinosis, researchers involved with the Rabies Challenge Fund have thus far demonstrated a minimum of 5 year duration of immunity to rabies after vaccination.Until federal law accepts longer duration of immunity for rabies vaccines, pet owners and veterinarians should use mercury-free vaccines.After all this discussion, we are left with the question of what is in a vaccine. While we dont know specific ingredients in an individual vaccine, as that information is proprietary, we do know some vaccines contain some, or all, of the following:As a practicing veterinarian, Dr. Cathy treated 80% of what walked in the door not with expensive prescriptions but with adequate nutrition. Now retired from private practice, her commitment to pets hasnt waned and she looks forward to impacting many more pet parents through her books, research, speaking and consulting work. Learn more at drcathyvet.com