Like late night callers to the Coast to Coast AM, the Internet is filled with articles that claim to have found the fatal flaw in hoaxes perpetrated by the scientific community. Using the well-honed technique of throwing an easy pitch of shocking facts followed by a home run of emotional appeal, the reader is left wondering how they were ever hoodwinked by the authorities. But when you delve into the supposed facts that form the warrant for these articles, you are left more underwhelmed. A 2012 essay (making the Facebook rounds again) by Russell Blaylock is no different. Despite having no obvious expertise* in infectious diseases or vaccines specifically some syndications of the essay mention the fact that he is a board-certified neurosurgeon, but this isnt terribly relevant Blaylock feels he has the authority to write a long essay making the bold claim that vaccine-induced herd immunity is a myth. It perhaps goes without saying that he provides no references for the statements he makes as if they were well-known facts. This itself is massively frustrating as it makes it difficult to know exactly where he is getting his information. Perhaps he has a source, I just dont know what it is so cannot respond directly, but can only attempt to interpret his intent.After a brief intro he starts the section entitled Is Herd Immunity Real, Dr. Blaylock says (ellipsis and emphasis mine):The essential claims in this section:We can take a look at all three at once using a simple table. Note that the source for the bulk of the information contained here is from the CDC Pink Book, which has comprehensive information about each of the illnesses and their vaccines.Lets take a look at the table and see how his claims hold up. Of the 12 vaccines listed, only 7 of them can be considered to confer lifetime immunity to those that were naturally infected. About the same (7 or 8, depending on how you want to count) of the vaccines effectively provide lifetime immunity. So both claims #1 and #2 are simply incorrect, even if one is limited to measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox.Regarding claim #3, you can see thenone of the childhood illnesses (chickenpox, mumps, measles, rubella) that Blaylock mentions require boosters after the initial immunizations for the average person. For chickenpox, there are two doses before 6 years of age. Mumps, measles and rubella (administered together in the MMR) are recommended to be administered in two doses, generally before age six (the second dose is now recommended to be in the MMRV, which adds the chickenpox vaccine). Only mumps and measles are specifically recommended to give given to college students or health care workers that didnt get the second dose when they were children. So unless Blaylock is considering the 2-dose recommendation as a booster, his statement is simply untrue. Additionally, the recommendations are not because the vaccine only lasts 2 to 10 years, but because sometimes the first dose doesnt take. The only ones that require regular boosters are diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus and they all come in a single vaccine.The recommended adult schedules are available from the CDCs Immunization Schedules page, with the relevant for this discussion sub-page being the Adult schedules.The key thing to note that is the adult recommendation for the general populace for the MMR isonly for those that did not get the vaccinations when they were children. So I welcome Dr. Blaylock to provide a citation for his claim that the boosters only last 2 years and that adults are being asked to get them. And persons born before 1957 (relevant later when Blaylock talks about Baby Boomers) are considered immune. And as far as I can tell the recommendation for college students and health care workers is really only if a second dose hadnt already been given as a child.The claims he is making are factually untrue or at the very least they are highly skewed interpretations of his source data (which we have no way to verify), and weve barely scratched the surface of his off-the-cuff essay. We havent even gotten to his claims about herd immunity, which will be covered in later parts of my response.Notes: * Even an expert on the topic should not be writing or speaking against the broad consensus without citing a significant amount of credible research, otherwise it is simply an argument from authority. Mark Crislips articles are filled with reference and hes an infectious disease doctor.Table Notes: [1] The virus can actually re-awaken to cause shingles later in life [2] In fact, even people recovering from diphtheria are recommended to get the vaccine [3] Boosters only for those in high risk populations [4] The vaccine is more effective than natural immunity at preventing infection or getting re-infected. Vaccine itself only required for those younger than five. [5] Health care workers and those entering secondary education are recommended to get MMR booster [6] Because of vaccination, polio has been eliminated from the Western Hemisphere, and as of 2009 was only present in four nations. [7] Rotavirus vaccine is really only for those younger than 2 years old [8] Rubella vaccine is in the MMR, so people do often get another dose [9] Ive bolded tetanus, which will become important in a later part of this response, but feel free to read Blaylocks statements about it.