Doctors recommend that your child get 2 doses of the MMR shot for best protection. Your child will need one dose at each of the following ages: Infants 6 months to 11 months old should have 1 dose of MMR shot before traveling abroad.The best way to protect against measles is to get the measles-mumps-rubella shot (called the MMR shot). Doctors recommend that all children get the MMR shot.Yes. The MMR shot is very safe, and it is effective at preventing measles (as well as mumps and rubella). Vaccines, like any medicine, can have side effects. But most children who get the MMR shot have no side effects.Most children do not have any side effects from the shot. The side effects that do occur are usually very mild, such as a fever or rash. More serious side effects are rare. These may include high fever that could cause a seizure (in about 1 person out of every 3,000 who get the shot) and temporary pain and stiffness in joints (mostly in teens and adults).No. Scientists in the United States and other countries have carefully studied the MMR shot. None has found a link between autism and the MMR shot.Measles is a serious respiratory disease (in the lungs and breathing tubes) that causes a rash and fever. It is very contagious. In rare cases, it can be deadly.Measles starts with a fever that can get very high. Some of the other symptoms that may occur are:Measles can be dangerous, especially for babies and young children. From 2001-2013, 28% of children younger than 5 years old who had measles had to be treated in the hospital.For some children, measles can lead to:Measles spreads when a person infected with the measles virus breathes, coughs, or sneezes. It is very contagious. You can catch measles just by being in a room where a person with measles has been, up to 2 hours after that person is gone. And you can catch measles from an infected person even before they have a measles rash. Almost everyone who has not had the MMR shot will get measles if they are exposed to the measles virus.Measles disease can come into this country when unvaccinated U.S. residents travel internationally or foreign visitors to the United States are exposed to measles in another country and travel into the United States. The risk of getting measles may be very high for unvaccinated U.S. residents who travel abroad. The reason for this high risk is because measles is common in other parts of the world, including countries in Europe, Asia, the Pacific, and Africa. Worldwide, about 20 million people get measles each year. When people with measles travel into the United States, they can spread the disease to unvaccinated people including children too young to be vaccinated.From 2001 to 2013, the number of measles cases reported in the United States ranged from 37 to 220. However, in some years like 2014, there were more measles cases than usual. In 2014, 667 people from 27 states were reported as having measles. Most of these people got measles in the United States after being exposed to someone who got measles while in another country. So far in 2015, more than 189 people in the U.S. have been reported to have measles. Most of these cases were part of a large outbreak linked to an amusement park in California. For more information, see measles cases and outbreaks.To learn more about the MMR shot, talk to your childs doctor, call 1-800-CDC-INFO, or visit CDC Vaccines for Parents site.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Academy of Pediatrics strongly recommend children receive all vaccines according to the recommended schedule.