ciFed Vaccines Research Journal is an international, online, peer reviewed, multidisciplinary open access journal that aims in publishing enormous esteemed manuscripts in various forms in the fields of vaccines and vaccination procedures. It mainly focuses in the areas of Vaccine Production, Immunization, Immunotherapy and Cancer Vaccines. SciFed Vaccines Research Journal covers a wide range of themes associated to the use of Vaccines in our daily lives, their recent advances, research innovations, cell regeneration etc. encourages genuine, non-plagiarized, original and innovative submissions such as research article, review, mini review, rapid communications, case reports & letter to editors, short communications, image article, videos & graphical presentations and editorials. consider author as someone who has involved in the following activities according to the ICMJE1. Substantial contributions to the conception or design of the work.2. The acquisition, analysis, or interpretation of data for the work3. Drafting the work or revising it critically for important intellectual content4. Final approval of the version to be published5. Agreement to be accountable for all aspects of the work in ensuring that questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.Contributors who are not involved in all the above could not be included in the authors list but should be acknowledged.The contribution of each author should be clearly disclosed.The corresponding author is supposed to take responsibility of the manuscript submission and be in contact with the editorial office throughout the publication process and after publication to respond to critiques of the work and cooperate with any requests from the journal for data or additional information should questions about the paper arise after publication.We request others to use our online system in order to maintain records of the manuscript. You may submit the manuscript at our or send toeditorial.sfvrj@scifed.com