A doctor at Cleveland Clinic, a renowned medical institution, is apologizing after he wrote a blog post that questions the safety of vaccines . Daniel Neides, M.D., the associate director of the organizations Wellness Institute, said in a statement that he regrets publishing a blog that has caused so much concern and confusion for the public and medical community. I fully support vaccinations and my concern was meant to be positive around the safety of them."Cleveland Clinic said in a statement on its website that the organization is fully committed to evidence-based medicine. Harmful myths and untruths about vaccinations have been scientifically debunked in rigorous ways, the statement said. We completely support vaccinations to protect people, especially children who are particularly vulnerable. Our physician published his statement without authorization from Cleveland Clinic. His views do not reflect the position of Cleveland Clinic and appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.The blog post , which was published on Cleveland.com and blew up on social media, questioned whether preservatives used in vaccines are safe for infants. Newborns without intact immune systems and detoxification systems are being over-burdened with PRESERVATIVES AND ADJUVANTS IN THE VACCINES, Neides wrote. The adjuvants, like aluminumused to stimulate the immune system to create antibodiescan be incredibly harmful to the developing nervous system. Some of the vaccines have helped reduce the incidence of childhood communicable diseases, like meningitis and pneumonia. That is great news. But not at the expense of neurologic diseases like autism and ADHD increasing at alarming rates.But major health organizations, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, American Academy of Pediatrics, the National Academy of Medicine, and World Health Organization, have stated that there is no link between vaccination and autism or other neurological conditions. Some people have had concerns that [autism spectrum disorder] might be linked to the vaccines children receive, but studies have shown that there is no link between receiving vaccines and developing ASD, the CDC states on its website .Doctors arent pleased with Neides writing. William Schaffner, M.D., an infectious disease specialist and professor at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, tells SELF that the blog post was ghastly and professionally inappropriate. He adds, It made a whole series of allegations that are simply not correct and flew in the face of all scientific evidence.Board-certified infectious disease specialist Amesh A. Adalja, M.D., an assistant professor at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, agrees. This is a horrible example of how the anti-vaccine movement has made major inroads not just with the general public but with physicians as well, he says. Its really inexcusable on the part of the physician to give any of these myths any type of credence.Much of the controversy surrounding vaccines is centered around thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative used to prevent contamination of multi-dose vials of vaccines. However, research has not found a link between the ingredient and autism. The CDC notes that there have been nine studies conducted or funded by the CDC on thimerosal-containing vaccines since 2003, and none has found a link between the ingredient and autism, as well as no link between the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine and autism. (However, thimerosal was removed from many vaccines between 1999 and 2001 as a precaution, before it was determined that the ingredient was not harmful, the CDC says.) The CDC notes that there are concerns about other vaccine ingredients as well, but no links have been found between any vaccine ingredients and [autism spectrum disorder].Adalja calls vaccines extremely safe, adding, when you look at the risk and benefit of vaccines, it is so tilted in favor of vaccines that it should be something that people get without a second thought. Schaffner notes that the American Academy of Pediatrics supports vaccinesand even urges parents to do their own research on the topicin addition to doctors around the world who state that vaccines are safe. Are we all part of some sort of international conspiracy? he says. Come onget real.Vaccines can have side effects, Adalja says, but theyre more likely to be a sore arm or injection site redness. In rare cases, Adalja says, children can also suffer a febrile seizure , a benign (as in, not harmful) but scary seizure caused by a spike in body temperature. If you look at the rates of these complications, they usually are much much lower than the problems that are caused by whatever the disease you are protecting against, he says. Everything that were getting vaccinated againstthese arent minor conditions.Leaving children unvaccinated is dangerous because it leaves them susceptible to disease, Schaffner says. While some parents may rely on herd immunity, a phenomenon that occurs when people in a community are protected against a disease because the majority of them are vaccinated against it, people can bring that disease in from other countries where vaccination rates arent as high and expose children to it, he says. Vaccines have also eradicated several scary illnesses, such as polio, and uncomfortable illnesses, such as chickenpox. Those things are eliminated, Schaffner points out.Experts urge parents who have concerns about vaccines to do their own research via reputable sources, like the CDC and American Academy of Pediatrics, and talk to their childs pediatrician. Think about how many doses of vaccines are given to children with no ill effect, Adalja says. This is a life-enhancing technology, the same as an airbag in a car. To think otherwise really is to ignore the data and damn the science that is behind it.You may also like: New Year's Challenge Strength Workout: Full-Body Burn