The Depart of Justice issues a report on vaccine injuries and deaths every quarter to theAdvisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines(click on Meeting Book PDF 11 MB and start reading at page 51.). This March 5, 2015 report states that there were 117 cases for vaccine injuries and deaths compensated from 11/16/2014 to 2/15/2015.92 of the settlements were listed in the report, giving the name of the vaccines, the injury, and the amount of time the case was pending before settlement. Five of those settlements were for deaths linked to vaccines, with three deaths related to the flu shot. 73 of the 92 settlements were for injuries and deaths due to the flu shot, and the majority of flu shot injuries were for Guillain-Barr Syndrome.These quarterly reports on vaccine injuries and death settlements from the U.S. vaccine court are seldom, if ever, reported in the mainstream media. We report them here at Health Impact News. Here is the March 5, 2015 report:In November of 2014 the Government Accounting Office (GAO) issued the first reporton Americas Vaccine Court, known asthe National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (NVICP), in almost 15 years. Most citizens of the United States are not even aware that there is something called the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, and that if you suffer harm or death due to a vaccine, that you cannot sue the manufacturer of the vaccine, but you must sue the Federal Government and try to obtain compensation fromtheVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, which is funded by taxes paid on vaccines.TheNovember 2014 GAO report criticized the government for not making the public more aware that this program exists, and that there are funds available for vaccine injuries. Therefore, the settlements represented by vaccine injuries and deaths included in the DOJ report probably represent a small fraction of the actual vaccine injuries and deathsoccurringin America today.But even for those families and individuals who are aware of theNVICP, fighting a legal battle that can take years to get access to the funds ensures that many who do file claims never get any of the funds reserved for vaccine injuries. That fund,theVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund,is currently over $3.5 billion, largely because the U.S. Government refuses to even hear cases related to autism which would quickly deplete the fund. (See:How the Government has Earned $3.5 BILLION from the Claim that Vaccines Dont Cause Autism.)Wayne Rohde, author of the book The Vaccine Court: The Dark Truth of Americas Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, explains how theNVICP is no longera viable justice venue for the vaccine injured as Congress intended it to be. (See:GAO Report on Vaccine Court Reveals Vaccine Injured Victims Not Being Helped.)The unified message presented by the U.S. mainstream media and certain government agencies is that vaccines are safe.This is a lie. Vaccines are dangerous. People are injured and killed by vaccines, and the quarterly reports from the DOJ, which probably reflects a very small percentage of the actual cases, clearly reflect that inherent danger.So many people were being injured and killed by vaccines in the 1980s, that the pharmaceutical companies petitioned Congress to pass legislation giving them legal immunity from cases in civil court. They basically blackmailed Congress by threatening to get out of the vaccine business if such legislation was not passed.Congress obliged in 1986, and today we have the NVICP, while new vaccines entering this protected and guaranteed market have soared. The largest purchaser of vaccines is the CDC, purchasing over $4 billion worth of vaccines a year.In addition, the U.S. Government holds patents on some vaccines, and earns royalties on them, such as the Gardasil vaccine.Julie Gerberding was in charge of the CDC from 2002 to 2009, which includes the years the FDA approved Gardasil as a vaccine.Soon after she took over the CDC, shereportedlycompletely overhauled the agencys organizational structure, andmany of the CDCs senior scientists and leaders either left or announced plans to leave. Some have claimed that almost all of the replacements Julie Gerberding appointed hadties to the vaccine industry.Gerberding resigned from the CDC on January 20, 2009,and is now the president of Mercks Vaccine division, a 5 billion dollar a year operation, and the supplier of the largest number of vaccines the CDC recommends (article here).In 2014Dr. William Thompson, a senior epidemiologist at the CDC who co-authored and published research on the MMR vaccine for the CDC back in 2004, made thedecision to become a whistleblower and reveal data that was concealed by the CDC linking the MMR vaccine to autism among African American boys. In addition,Merck has been involved in a long federal lawsuit with allegations of fraud over the mumps portion ofthe MMR vaccine, in a case filed back in 2010 by twowhistleblowers, virologists who worked for Merck. Merck has apparently tried hard to get this case thrown out of court, and keep this news out of the media, but late in 2014 a federal judge finally ruled that the case is to move forward. (See:Why is the Mainstream Media Ignoring Measles Vaccine Fraud Cases?)The U.S. government has massive conflicts of interest where it concerns policies related to the vaccine industry. Before you make a potential life-changing decision for you or your children by agreeing to be vaccinated, do your own research. The government cannot be trusted on vaccine matters, and the mainstream media and many doctors are also not doing their own research related to the vaccine industry. Be informed and educated regarding vaccines,before you become a statistic among the vaccine injured and dead.Read this article and comment at VaccineImpact.comSaying NO To Vaccines By Dr. Sherri Tenpenny You have legal options!Canadian physician Dr. Andrew Moulden provided clear scientific evidence to prove that every dose of vaccine given to a child or an adult produces harm. The truth that he uncovered was rejected by the conventional medical system and the pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, his warning and his message to America remains as a solid legacy of the man who stood up against big pharma and their program to vaccinate every person on the Earth.Dr. Moulden died unexpectedly in November of 2013 at age 49.Because of the strong opposition from big pharma concerning Dr. Mouldens research, we became concerned that the name of this brilliant researcher and his lifes work had nearly been deleted from the internet. His reputation was being disparaged, and his message of warning and hope was being distorted and buried without a tombstone. This book summarizes his teaching and is a must-read for everyone who wants to learn the other-side of the vaccine debate that the mainstream media routinely censors.