Washington, D.C.January 16, 2016 [Globe Newswire] Dr. Sin Hang Lee, MD, Director, Milford Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory, has submitted an official, open-letter complaint to the Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr. Margaret Chan, alleging gross misconduct, malfeasance and what potentially amounts to criminal behavior to mislead the global public regarding the safety of HPV vaccines Gardasil and Cervarix.Dr. Lee has submitted a lengthy letter detailing communications between health officials from the US, Canada, Japan, and the WHO, which demonstrate that these officials knew that HPV vaccines cause an inflammatory reaction greater than other vaccines, yet reassured the public in official hearings and statements that the vaccines were safe.Specifically, certain chemicals contained in the HPV vaccines have been demonstrated to trigger the release of cytokines or proteins called tumor necrosis factors (TNF) in the body. TNF cytokines can cause cell death. The release of TNF can also result in a wide range of reactions such as tumor regression, septic shock (serious whole-body inflammatory response that can result in dangerously low blood pressure and death), and cachexia (a wasting syndrome where the body loses weight, becomes fatigued, and muscles atrophy). Administration of TNF has been proven to cause death in humans and animals.The chain of emails shows what appears to be a trail of attempts to conceal the truth, cover up the dangers, and generally mislead the public about what is and is not known about HPV vaccines and the dangers inherent to them, reports Leslie Manookian, spokesman for the Weston A. Price Foundation (WAPF).The officials discuss how to respond to the safety concerns raised by legitimate scientific inquiry rather than ways to ascertain the true extent of the dangers uncovered in the independent research. Official statements deliberately mislead the public about what is known of the dangers of the contaminants discovered in the HPV vaccines as well as the bodily responses to these ingredients. Official statements appear to be a deliberate attempt to confuse the public into believing the safety concerns have been addressed in the peer-reviewed, published scientific literature when this is not the case, adds Manookian.The open letter, alleging what amounts to crimes against humanity if they are proven true, is a wake-up call to officials around the world. An immediate investigation must commence, and all HPV vaccines must be withdrawn from the market immediately, says Sally Fallon Morell, WAPF president.In addition, The Weston A. Price Foundation demands all vaccines should be subjected to further review, and asks for Congressional investigation of CDC Whistleblower William Thompson to commence. Thompson claims the CDC fraudulently altered data connecting MMR vaccine to autism and destroyed documents to conceal their actions.To read Dr. Lees open letter in its entirety, please click here, Allegations of HPV Scientific Misconduct.The Weston A. Price Foundation is a 501(c)(3) nutrition education foundation with the mission of disseminating accurate, science-based information on diet and health. Named after nutrition pioneer Weston A. Price, DDS, author of Nutrition and Physical Degeneration, the Washington, DC-based Foundation publishes a quarterly journal for its 15,000 members, supports 600 local chapters worldwide and hosts a yearly international conference. The Foundation phone number is (202) 363-4394, www.westonaprice.org, info@westonaprice.org.