Each year there are millions of children and adults who are vaccinated nationwide throughout the United States. While vaccines that protect people from certain types of illnesses and diseases are generally safe for the vast majority of the population, there are rare circumstances where such vaccinations can cause adverse reactions that can lead to very serious injuries. If you or your child has suffered an injury due to a vaccine, you will want to speak with an experienced vaccine injury lawyer as soon as possible so that you can protect your rights and get the compensation you need and deserve.At the Law Firm of Marvin Firestone, MDJD, & Associates, LLP, our seasoned attorneys help people who have been seriously injured by vaccines get the maximum compensation they deserve. If you or your loved one is not sure if the injury is vaccine related, we can help you make that determination. We also have a list on our website of some of the common types of vaccine injuries.THERE IS A TIME LIMIT TO FILE: The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program sets a time limit from when you were injured to when you file. If you miss the deadline, you will lose your right to compensation. Contact our law firm today before time runs out to file. The federal program covers ALL legal fees, so our clients pay NO COSTS for consultation or representation. Our lawyers help clients throughout the United States. Call (800)-529-6353 or fill out our online form.The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP) was created in 1988 under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 when lawsuits against the various vaccine manufacturers caused the potential for shortages of vaccines. Under the program, the U.S. Court of Federal Claims decides who will be paid. The Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund (VICTF) provides the funding for the NVICP by charging a $0.75 excise tax on each dose of a vaccine in the United States, and pays out compensation for injuries from specific vaccines that are covered by the program.The VICP covers all reasonable costs and legal fees which are paid out separately from the compensation award. That means you pay nothing to have an experienced legal team to help you navigate the program, from the initial filing of your claim to court appearances and even litigation, if needed, so you can get the maximum compensation for your injury and suffering.At our law firm, our principal attorney, Marvin Firestone, MDJD, has over 30 years legal experience and is also a licensed physician in the state of California. Dr. Firestone has a deep understanding about medical issues such as vaccines and can offer you his years of legal knowledge to help you navigate the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program for the best possible results.Contact our law firm today to schedule a FREE consultation with one of our attorneys by calling toll free (800)-529-6353 or fill out our online form.