By Neil Z. Miller 352 Pages / Price: $19.95 Foreword by Russell Blaylock, MD More than 1,000 Studies by calling: Or click on the button below:Click here to order 5 or more copies at 40% discount. The is the world's most complete guide to immunization risks and protection. It includes pertinent information on every major vaccine: polio, tetanus, MMR, hepatitis A, B, HPV (cervical cancer), Hib, Flu, chickenpox, shingles, rotavirus, pneumococcal, meningococcal, RSV, DTaP, anthrax, smallpox, TB, and more. All of the information, including detailed vaccine safety and efficacy data, is written in an easy-to-understand format, yet includes more than 1,000 scientific citations. More than 100 charts, graphs and illustrations supplement the text. This encyclopedic health manual is an important addition to every family's home library and will be referred to again and again.What Others Are Saying About This Book:"Neil Miller's is a comprehensive, scientifically-documented MUST READ for every parent, healthcare professional and policymaker who faces the dilemma of compulsory vaccination. In my professional role, this manual is valuable to me as a reference and referral guide. I have used and recommended all of Neil Miller's books for years, and I think this latest manual is an essential addition to extend one's vaccine knowledge. With the growing body of evidence that vaccines may be linked to chronic illness and autism, it is imperative that parents educate themselves before making the vaccine decision. This manual is an important step toward that education." "This is the best book ever written on this subject. I cannot imagine how many hours were spent researching the information. The chapter on the HPV vaccine is one of the most incisive, data-packed and well-argued pieces of scientific journalism I have ever seen. This book will go a long way toward helping people make critical vaccine decisions." "Neil Miller's book, is most refreshing because it reveals the other half of the vaccine story. It is a scholarly resource that presents material in understandable terms so as to help both parents and health practitioners recognize that each vaccine, far from being 100 percent safe, has associated risks and debilitating effects for which no prescreening is yet available." "The most honest, well-researched, informative and up-to-date book I have ever read on the dangers of vaccines. I recommend it highly."