On this page: Is there thimerosal in childhood vaccines today? What is thimerosal? Is thimerosal bad for you? What is a trace amount? If a small amount of thimerosal isnt bad for you, why did they take it out of vaccines? Does thimerosal cause neurodevelopmental disorders? Is there thimerosal in flu vaccines? Should my child get a flu vaccine? Is it safe for pregnant women to receive an influenza vaccine that contains thimerosal? Where can I get flu vaccine that does not contain thimerosal? What other vaccines contain thimerosal?Download PDF version formatted for print: Thimerosal and Childhood Vaccines: What You Should Know (PDF:41KB/2 pages)Since 2001, all routinely recommended vaccines (except for the flu vaccine) for administration to young children in the U.S. contain no thimerosal or only trace amounts.There is a broader goal legislated by Congress to remove as many sources of mercury exposure to people as possible. Unlike environmental sources of mercury that are hard to remove, the thimerosal in vaccines is a small, but easily removed, source of mercury. Manufacturers have worked to remove the thimerosal from infant vaccines and are now working to remove it from the influenza vaccines. MDH supports this.Studies done to date show no association between neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism, andthimerosal.Yes. The majority of influenza vaccines distributed in the United States contain thimerosal as a preservative. However, an increasing amount isthimerosal-free. While the multiple dose vials still have thimerosal to prevent bacterial growth, the single-dose preparations do not. The amount of influenza vaccine that is thimerosal-free is growing every year.Yes. There is the very real risk of influenza disease in children. Very young children often end up in the hospital when they get influenza. Six children eight years of age or less died from complications of the flu in Minnesota during the 2006-2007 flu season. On the other hand, scientific studies have shown no evidence of harm caused by the small doses of thimerosal in vaccines.Other than the flu vaccine, there are a few vaccines that contain thimerosal. However, these vaccines are not routinely recommended for young children and are not routinely given to older persons.