The MMR vaccine protects your child against three viruses: measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles).You can also protect your child against chicken pox with the MMRV vaccine. The MMRV is the same as the MMR, except that it also includes protection against the varicella virus, which causes chicken pox. Some parents get the first dose of the MMR vaccine for their child, and choose the MMRV vaccine for the second dose.Measles is a highly contagious illness that was once almost universal in children. Its main symptoms are a rash, fever, runny nose, cough, and eye irritation.Possible complications of measles include ear infections, diarrhea, pneumonia, seizures, encephalitis, brain damage, and death.Before a measles vaccine was licensed in 1963, 3 to 4 million people were infected with measles in the United States annually. About 48,000 people were hospitalized, and 400 to 500 died. Measles encephalitis chronically disabled 1,000 people.There were only 70 cases of measles reported by the CDC in 2016. Although measles has been virtually wiped out in the United States, small outbreaks occasionally happen when travelers bring the illness into the country (usually from Europe or Asia) and there are large numbers of people who choose not to vaccinate their kids. These outbreaks can affect unvaccinated people, including infants who either haven't yet received the MMR vaccine or have received only one dose.In 2014 there were 667 cases of measles in the United States the highest number since it was officially declared eliminated in 2000. A large outbreak in Ohio infected 383 unvaccinated people. Another large outbreak began at Disneyland in California at the end of 2014, and sickened 147 people in seven states, Mexico, and Canada by the time it was over in 2015.Measles outbreaks are still common in other countries, including Europe. According to the World Health Organization, measles is one of the leading causes of vaccine-preventable deaths in young children. But thanks to the global effort to vaccinate children against measles, the number of measles deaths around the world has dropped by about 79 percent since 2000.Mumps is a viral infection that typically causes a fever, headache, and inflammation of the glands under the ears or jaw.Mumps can lead to meningitis, encephalitis, and (rarely) deafness. It can also cause painful swelling of the testicles or ovaries.Twenty to 50 percent of males infected with mumps after puberty develop orchitis, an inflammation of one or both testicles. In rare cases, orchitis leads to sterility.Before a vaccine was available, mumps was common in babies, children, and young adults. The current vaccine was licensed in 1967. By 2009, the two-dose childhood vaccine reduced the rate of the disease by 99 percent.But since then, there have been a number of outbreaks. There were outbreaks on several college campuses in 2016, and more than 5,000 cases were reported by the end of the year.Rubella, also called German measles, is characterized by a pinkish red rash that starts on the face, a mild fever, and swollen lymph nodes. It's possible, however, to have rubella without any symptoms.Rubella is a mild illness that runs its course in about three days. But if a woman gets rubella during pregnancy, it can cause a miscarriage or birth defects in her baby, including deafness, eye problems, heart defects, and intellectual disability. During an epidemic in 1964 through 1965, 12.5 million cases of rubella were reported in the United States, and 20,000 infants were born blind, deaf, or mentally disabled as a result.The first rubella vaccines were licensed in 1969. Today rubella has been virtually eliminated in the United States, with only a handful of cases reported each year.Babies 6 to 11 months old should get one dose if you're going to travel with your child outside the United States.Adults who were vaccinated before 1968 and can't confirm they received the live measles vaccine should get revaccinated. The inactivated vaccine given from 1963 to 1967 was less effective than the live vaccine. Women of childbearing age who have not received the rubella vaccine also should get vaccinated.To track your child's immunizations, use BabyCenter's Immunization Scheduler.A child who has ever had a life-threatening allergic reaction to gelatin (yes, the stuff found in Jell-O), the antibiotic neomycin, or a previous dose of the MMR vaccine should not get the immunization.Check with your doctor about giving the MMR vaccine to your child if he:Because the measles and mumps vaccines are made by growing the virus in the cells of chicken embryos, children with egg allergies used to be advised not to get the vaccine. However, studies have found that even children with severe egg allergies can receive this vaccine without a greater risk of side effects.Kids who are moderately or severely ill are usually advised to wait until they're better to get the vaccine.The CDC recommends that children age 12 to 47 months or any child with a history of seizures get the MMR and varicella vaccines separately because studies show an increased risk of fever and febrile seizures when they're combined. Talk to your child's doctor about getting the MMR vaccine instead of the MMRV vaccine if your child has ever had a seizure or if there's a family history of seizures.Mild reactions are fairly common. Up to 1 in 6 children gets a low fever, and 1 in 20 develops a mild rash. In rare cases, a child has swelling in the glands of his neck or cheeks.If these problems are going to happen, they usually show up six to 14 days after getting the shot. A child is more likely to have these symptoms after the first dose.Moderate reactions are less common. About 1 child in 3,000 who gets the MMR vaccine has a seizure caused by high fever. With the MMRV vaccine, as many as 1 in 1,250 has a seizure.Though these febrile seizures may seem scary, they're almost always harmless to the child.Up to 1 person in 30,000 will have a temporarily low platelet count, which may cause bleeding problems.Severe allergic reactions are rare but possible with any vaccine. See what our expert says about how to tell whether your child is having an adverse reaction.If your child has an adverse reaction to this or any other vaccine, talk to your child's doctor and report it to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System.The CDC and the American Academy of Pediatrics say there's no scientific evidence linking the MMR vaccine with autism. But a purported link has been a topic of studies and heated debate.In 1998, the British medical journal The Lancet published a study connecting the MMR vaccine and autism. Researchers noticed that eight of the 12 children with autism being studied had started showing symptoms of the condition around the time they received their MMR shots, and the researchers hypothesized that the children were having a physical reaction to the vaccine.It turned out to be a coincidence, and the study has now been repudiated by most of the researchers associated with it and retracted by The Lancet. An editorial published in the British Medical Journal in 2011 called The Lancet study "fraudulent" and noted that the lead author had been stripped of his academic and medical credentials.