Few things make people more emotional than the subject of vaccines, which is unfortunate, because emotion blocks rational thinking. In this article you will learn how understandingvaccine damage from ingredients as well as from contaminants can save your life and that of your family.Consider that for the first time in history, infants have becomeregularly obese. In 2006, scientists at the Harvard School of PublicHealth found that rates of obesity in infants less than 6 months oldhave risen 73% since 1980.(1) This epidemic of obesity in 6-month-oldsis not related to lack of exercise. Its probably not related just to dieteither. While formula instead of breastfeeding contributes to this, babies do not drink sodas or eat fast food.I will give you a clue as to a major cause for this. Be warned thatthis will likely shock you. Please look at this list to seehow the number of vaccinations have increased over time.Its pretty weird that we vaccinate babies, since it supposedly worksby stressing the immune system to produce antibodies, and babies donthave a well developed immune system yet. In fact, studies have shownthat a childs immune system doesnt completely mature until about6 years of age(2).Plus, germs are given a free ride into the bloodstream,without having to fight their way through the immune system.Two of the worst ingredients in vaccines are mercury and formaldehyde.There is no safe level for either of these poisons. Other vaccineingredients that are related to major health problemsinclude, but are not limited to, poisonous aluminum and MSG (monosodium glutamate).You dont want these poisons in food, so why do we put them intoperfect little babies?Since the truth to this answer is so shocking I willget an expert, Dr. Leonard Horowitz, to tell you what the mainstreammedia will not.Dr. Len Horowitz, D.M.D., M.A., M.P.H. is a Harvard graduate,an internationally recognized authority in public health and a powerfulpublic speaker. He was awarded Author of the Year award by theWorld Natural Health Organization. His best selling book, EmergingViruses: AIDS & Ebola Nature, Accident or Intentional? is a must-read.This work is largely responsible for public health and vaccine policychanges in at least three Third World nations.The following is just a very little of the essential information fromthe excellent CD by Dr. Horowitz that I cannot recommend more highlyto absolutely everyone, Horowitz on Vaccines: The risks of following yourdoctors advice may be deadly, available from www.Tetrahedron.org.In 1986 Dr. Maurice Hilleman, Chief of the Merck PharmaceuticalCompanys vaccine division, and the worlds leading vaccine developer,was interviewed by WGBH, Bostons famed public broadcasting station.The interview was never aired.On the CD you will actually hear Hilleman discuss the fact thatthe Salk and Sabin polio vaccines in the late 50s and early 60s wereboth hideously contaminated with monkey viruses, much like they aretoday. The really weird thing about this interview is the laughter fromthose present at the shocking news. These people are not like you andme. Here are some brief, direct quotes from the radio interview:Dr. Maurice Hilleman: so we brought African Greens (monkeys)in and I didnt know we were importing the AIDS virus at the time.Miscellaneous background voices:(loud laughter) it was youwho introduced the AIDS virus into the country. Now we know!(laughter) This is the real story! (laughter) What Merck wont doto develop a vaccine! (laughter) Dr. Maurice Hilleman: So now I got to have something (to discussat a conference). And I thought. That virus has got to bein vaccinesSo I quick tested it (laughter) and sure enough it wasin there.Dr. Maurice Hilleman: So I go down and I talked about the detectionof non detectable viruses and told Albert, I said, Listen Albertyou know you and I are good friends but Im going to go down thereand youre going to get upset, because Im going to talk about thedetection of virus that its in your vaccinewell he said basically,that this is just another obfuscation thats going to upset vaccinesDr. Maurice Hilleman: Well there are 40 different viruses in thesevaccines, anyway, that we were inactivating Dr. Edward Shorter: But you werent inactivating his thoughDr. Maurice Hilleman: No thats right, but yellow fever vaccinehad leukemia virus in it So then the next thing you know is, three, four weeks after thatwe found that there were tumors popping up in these hamsters.(3)Dr. Guylaine Lanctot wrote the recommended book, The MedicalMafia, in Canada. She is a pediatric physician who refused to vaccinateher patients. So the Canadian Medical Association and the Canadian government brought her before a kangaroo court where she called aswitnesses Dr. Horowitz and W. John Martin, one of the worlds leadingvaccine contamination analysts, in charge of testing human vaccines forcontamination between 1976 and 1980 at the FDA Bureau of Biologics.John Martin gave testimony saying that these vaccines carry majorcontaminants, and the fact is that they may or may not cause canceror other illnesses in your lifetime, but they may be passed in the geneline to your children or your childrens children, or even environmentallyand they may cause cancer or other illnesses in their lifetimes.The judge then came back after the first break and pounded his gavel and said, Case dismissed.They do not want this informationmade public.It helps to study the history of medicine that we were never taughtin school. The Rockefeller led military-medical-industrial complex,which literally had a partnership with I.G. Farben and the Nazi ThirdReich, is working to control the worlds pharmaceutical and chemicalindustries, because they realized that they could literally eliminatehumans silently and covertly through drugs and chemicals, promotedby propaganda.Dr. Horowitz makes the valid proposition that vaccines today arebeing used like the gas chambers of World War 2, and that the healthofficials who offer you free vaccines are like the concentration campsof yesteryear. Its the same people, or their heirs and the same money,who believe in genocide (the murder of large numbers of people), atthe same time that they make vast fortunes off of human suffering.There is a good book called The Science of Coercion, by ChristopherSimpson. Simpson studied psychological warfare methods usedon scientists and physicians from 1945 to virtually the present. Simpsonconcludes virtually the same thing that Dr. Horowitz concludedin Emerging Viruses, AIDS & Ebola, that the Rockefellers establishedthe agenda for science throughout the world. If you were a scientist or a health professional that did not go along with the agenda then youwere, and still are, demoted, defunded, and ostracized or persecuted.This included alternative health professionals as well as independentdoctors not under their control.A man named Flexner was paid by John D. Rockefeller from hisStandard Oil fortune, to get rid of competition in health care. To thisend, he made a bogus scientific report which allegedly said that alternativetherapies were quackery. The Flexner report also took a lotof power away from independent doctors, and centralized it into thehands of the big corporations(4). With the help of the Flexner report, theRockefellers and their associates established a monopoly of Americanmedicine in the 1920s, when they also established the cancer industry.Ernest Rudin became the director of the Rockefeller-built KaiserWilhelm Institute for Eugenics in pre-Nazi Germany. Eugenics is thestudy of improving people by selective breeding. Today physiciansand public health nurses tell you that vaccines are for your own good,because theyve been persuaded by the Rockefeller-directed military-medical-industrial complex propaganda.The only difference betweenhealth care professionals that tell you these vaccines are safe and effective,and any other cult follower, is that most cult followers knowwho their leaders are. In health care, most physicians and public healthnurses have no clue that they are puppets for the Rockefeller family.The following is almost a direct quote from Dr. Horowitzs excellent,life-saving CD which I again strongly urge you to listen to. Dr. Horowitzproves that vaccines are for the purpose of depopulating earth. Hedoes this with the vaccine companys own literature, that comes withthe Hepatitis B vaccine.As you read this, please note that Hepatitis B kills only 5,000 peoplein the U.S. each year(5), and that it is normally spread by drug addictswith infected needles, or from sexual contact. That is not somethingthat babies do.(6)If you look at the Merck literature and the Hepatitis B vaccine, justread the package insert to see what it says about side effects:It starts at 15%, with a little redness and swelling around thesite of injection. (Okay, no big deal).What does that mean serious injury? Serious injury means:Now, they say less than 1%. Lets be conservative. Lets just cutthe 1% in half. They want to inoculate 90% of approximately 50 millioninfants and children. So lets take half of that. Instead of 50 million,lets take 25 million.Whats 1% of 25 million children?Thats 250,000! Thats 250,000 of our children, over the next sevenyears, who will likely develop brain damage, chronic crippling arthritisor be dead. From that one vaccine! One out of over twenty vaccines that they want to give us and our children today!All this for a disease that kills only 5,000 people in the U.S. eachyear(7), and that is normally spread only by drug addicts with infectedneedles, or from sexual contact. 250,000 over seven years, means approximately 35,000 childrena year. And this is from just one vaccine. Every time a child receivesanother shot, they get another chance at death.Dr. Horowitz expands this further to the other vaccines, using theCenter for Disease controls own data.The CDC reported two publicationsin 1995 and 1996: Between 1990 and 1995 there were over 45,000vaccine-injured people. And that, they said, represented quote lessthan 1% of the actual injuries due to gross underreporting end quote.Now you know what that means, because of what we read aboveabout the literature that comes with the Hepatitis B vaccine. You haveto take 45,000 over five years and multiply it by at least 100 to see howmany children got injured. It could be 200, but lets take 100. What is100 times 45,000? That is 4.5 million vaccine induced injuries, accordingto the federal government statistics, over five years. And you dontread a word about it in the media.That is an ongoing holocaust of vaccine injuries in the United Statestoday! And you dont read one word about it. You only read wonderfulpraise about vaccines.It was the evil Adolph Hitler who said that if you tell a lie longenough, eventually it will be believed as truth. And the greater the lie,the more people will believe it. Well, you know, the phrase that comesto mind with this is the phrase vaccines are safe and effective.In fact, they dont know whether they are killing and maiming morepeople than they are helping and saving, because they have no definitivelong-term studies that show that most plausibly the entire gamutof autoimmune related disorders and weird cancers with no familyhistory, including lupus, MS, fibromyalgia, Guillain-Barre, AttentionDeficit Disorders, Hyperactivity disorders, AIDS, Chronic Fatigue, Gulf War Syndrome, chronic crippling rheumatoid arthritis, adult onsetdiabetes, Lou Gehrigs disease and asthma, all have now been scientificallylinked to an immune system that is not functioning correctly.This is what happens: As you get injected by contaminants and eventhe ingredients of the vaccines, you get foreign RNA and DNA. That is,carcinogens. Because what is foreign RNA when it gets injected intoyour blood? The cells in your immune system surround those, they takethem into the genes, they can recombine with your own genes and thenit becomes a pre-cancer cell. That is, cancer in an adult may be fromviruses that they were given in vaccines as a child.For example, on theCD you hear Dr. Hilleman say on the radio interviewhow hideously contaminated theYellow Fever vaccine was with leukemia virus.The American Cancer Society and the Center for Diseases Controlfor decades tell you some ways to prevent cancer, but never discuss virusesrelated to cancer. Dr. Horowitz talks about how documentationshows how Litton Biomedics Labs was fooling around with prostatecancer viruses (and prostate cancer is exploding) and that after theystudied mouse mammary tumor viruses, mouse mammary tumor virusesstarted turning up in mothers breast milk!Many people believe that vaccines have wiped many of the infectiousdiseases off the planet. To make people believe this, the CDC officialsshow a chart starting in 1960, when they initiated a vaccine program.The chart shows a drastic reduction in infectious diseases.But if theyjust extend their slide from 1960 back to the early 1900s, you wouldsee that the vast majority of infectious diseases were well on their wayout before the vaccines were administered. This was probably due toimprovements in hygiene and clean drinking water.On his CD, Dr. Horowitz tells the story of how a hospital tookcustody of their baby for four days, and they went through living hell,when they went to the hospital for an injury, and his wife said that theydid not believe in vaccines. Dr. Horowitz then suggests some adviceto people who are ever in a similar situation. I strongly urge you to getthis CD to hear the full advice for yourself.Naturally, you must investigatethis for yourself, but consider something such as:Well get vaccinated under one condition. You provide me witha bonded, notarized affidavit that swears that you will assume allmedical, legal and financial risks in the event that I or my child isinjured from the vaccine.Plus, many people do not vaccinate because it is against their religion.They do not want to defile the body, the Temple of the Holy Spirit.Others research home births, home schooling, the advantages of livingin otherstates and the excellent book Vaccine Legal Exceptions byAlan Phillips available at wwwVaccineRights.com.If you have vaccinated, do not beat yourself up. Forgive yourself,and forgive your parents if they vaccinated you. You are a victim of theMedical Mafia.Why do they do this? Well, we havent been told. But part of the reason will be money. Each cancer victim givesan average of $300,000 to the Medical Mafia. They dont tell you about the many cheapways to prevent and heal cancer. Vaccines help majorly to contribute to the$2.2 trillion ayear the Medical Mafia in theUnited States of America receives each year. Thatsfive times more than the defense budget (8)!Another reason could be that they now have a vaccine which controls thought, belief and intention, and religious faith. See this video that was leaked from the Pentagon which proves this.There are ways to overcome any health challenge, suchas removing heavy metals through chelation, using juicing andnatural health to boost the immune system and get a diet makeover.There isno magic pill. It takes a wholistic approach. But please realize that itis time to change the system and what we do, now, for the sake of yourgrandchildren and great grandchildren.Educate yourself fully before you take any vaccine. Listen to Dr. Horowitzs CD. Read Vaccine Legal Exemptions, by AlanPhillips JD.Visit websites created by people who had childrendie or made autistic from vaccines before you vaccinate. I talked on the phone once with a woman whose baby died shortly after vaccinating.It was beyond heart breaking. It still brings tears to my eyes justremembering that conversation.Note: Most of this article is reprint of just one of the 55 chapters in Youre Not Fat, Youre Toxic. Please read this book to save your life and improve its quality. If you dont want to buy it, you can ask the library to obtain a copy.How toraise a healthy child, in spite of your doctor, by Dr. Robert Mendelsohn MDItalian court rules mercury and aluminum in vaccines cause autism: US media continues total blackout of medical truthDISCLAIMER: The information on this website is not medical science or medical advice. This information is not backed up by scientific evidence. This is just for your information. This information and these products have not been evaluated by the FDA. These products and information are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease, disorder, pain, injury, deformity, or physical or mental condition. Results are not typical. Individual results may vary. Because every person's situation is different , the author of this article will not be held responsible for any negative results which come from reading or acting upon the information in this article. Use at your own risk. We make no medical claims for any products, nor do we sell them or offer them for the treatment for any ailment.Up to 1/3 of this article may be copied as long as no alterations are made, you mention the author and link to www.Relfe.comDisclosure: The owner of this website is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to Amazon properties including, but not limited to, amazon.com, endless.com, myhabit.com, smallparts.com, or amazonwireless.com.This article, or parts of this article,may be copied as long as no alterations are made, you mention and link to www.Relfe.com