[These are injected directly into the body, more so in combination.You can see these listed on the Package Inserts, apart from well hidden ones such as Msg. Poisons deplete nutrients that are crucial defences against infections! Then you have Contaminants like SV40 that is still in the polio vaccines1.Then you may get a badly made batch (see: Vaccine production/manufacturing Vaccination mistakes Vaccine storage), called Hot lots leading to Vaccine Disasters. Then you may get one of their bioweapons, see: Vaccine attack. Then the risk rises if your child is ill, they reject sick kids in vaccine trials (see: Healthy trial babies only), then give it to all and sundry including mercury containing flu vaccines for pregnant women 1. Hence the term vaccine roulette, where you take ALL the risk, they get ALL the benefit (see: Why Vaccination Continues.]See: Contaminants Vaccine attack Blood brain barrier See: Drugs depleting nutrients Infections & poisons quotes Synergistic toxicity Breast and bottlefeeding quotesVACCINE "CELL LINE" INGREDIENTS: [2015 pdf] Vaccine contents Included in U.S. Vaccines, by Vaccine t his table includes not only vaccine ingredients (e.g., adjuvants and preservatives), but also substances used during the manufacturing process, including vaccine-production media, that are removed from the final product and present only in trace quantities. In addition to the substances listed, most vaccines contain Sodium Chloride (table salt)."(Vaccine ingredients) 1. Micro-organisms, either bacteria or viruses, thought to be causing certain infectious diseases and which the vaccine is supposed to prevent. These are whole-cell proteins or just the broken-cell protein envelopes, and are called antigens. 2. Chemical substances which are supposed to enhance the immune response to the vaccine, called adjuvants. 3. Chemical substances which act as preservatives and tissue fixatives, which are supposed to halt any further chemical reactions and putrefaction (decomposition or multiplication) of the live or attenuated (or killed) biological constituents of the vaccine."--Viera Scheibner[2012 pdf] Vaccine Ingredients A Comprehensive Guide [2015 pdf] Excipients Included in U.S. Vaccines, by Vaccine Janine Roberts on how they make the Measles vaccine. How 'Measles Virus' is isolated for a Vaccine.