Menactra vaccine is designed to be safe and effective for individuals 9 months to 55 years of age. The chance that your child will experience serious side effects is small.3,14Side effects of Menactra vaccine include injection site pain, redness, swelling, headache and tiredness.3,14 In infants, irritability, crying, drowsiness, loss of appetite, and diarrhea are possible.3 Other side effects may occur.3Vaccination should be avoided by persons with known hypersensitivity (severe allergic reaction) to any ingredient of the vaccine. Persons previously diagnosed with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS - severe muscle weakness) may have an increased chance of getting GBS following vaccination. Vaccination with Menactra vaccine may not protect all individuals.3By clicking on this link, you will be leaving this Sanofi Pasteur website and going to another, entirely independent website. Sanofi Pasteur provides this link as a service to its website visitors; however, it takes no responsibility for the information presented on any website but its own. This link has opened in a new window. To return to your original site, please close this new window. Click here to go to the page you requested. Close window and return to site.Menactra vaccine is indicated for active immunization to prevent invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, Y, and W-135. Menactra vaccine is approved for use in individuals 9 months through 55 years of age. Menactra vaccine does not prevent N meningitidis serogroup B disease. The most common local and systemic adverse reactions to Menactra vaccine include pain, redness, and swelling at the injection site and appetite loss (all age groups); induration at the injection site and diarrhea (all age groups except infants); irritability and drowsiness (infants and children); abnormal crying, vomiting, and fever (infants); headache, fatigue, malaise, and arthralgia (adolescents and adults). Other adverse reactions may occur. Menactra vaccine is contraindicated in persons with a known hypersensitivity (eg, anaphylaxis) to any component of the vaccine. Persons previously diagnosed with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) may be at increased risk of GBS following receipt of Menactra vaccine. GBS has been reported in temporal relationship following administration of Menactra vaccine. The decision to give Menactra vaccine should be based on careful consideration of the potential benefits and risks. Syncope (fainting) can occur in association with administration of injectable vaccines, including Menactra vaccine. Procedures should be in place to prevent falling injury and manage syncopal reactions. Vaccination with Menactra vaccine may not protect all individuals. Before administering Menactra vaccine, please see accompanying full