Vaccine safety is an important issue. While scientific evidence supports vaccine safety and effectiveness, vaccines or vaccine preservatives sometimes become hot button topics. The best way to understand vaccine safety and effectiveness is to access reliable evidence-based information. The following resources can help you in learning the facts.Immunizations are our most powerful weapon against serious infectious diseases. Vaccines used in the United States are extremely safe, thanks to careful licensing procedures; advances in medical research; and ongoing review by doctors, researchers, and public health officials.With more than half a million babies born every year in California, health officials here place the highest priority on the effectiveness and safety of immunizations. Here are some of the ways the Department ofPublic Health(CDPH) provides leadership to ensure that California children are protected and that the immunizations they receive are safe and effective.Contraindications to Vaccines Chart (CDC)A chart describing when it is safe to receive a vaccine and which signs to look for afterwards. General vaccine information as well as information on 11 specific vaccines, with many links; 2 pages.Vaccine Safety Education Materials for ParentsGeneral Vaccine Safety Concerns (The Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia)Vaccine Safety (American Academy of Pediatrics) (PDF) Thimerosal in Seasonal Influenza Vaccine (CDC)Vaccine Ingredients (The Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia)Vaccine Safety Educational Website (CIC)The Why I Choose campaign serves as a resource for anyone concerned with vaccine safety and showcases immunization champions.Video FAQsA series of videos with experts addressing common questions and concerns about vaccines and vaccine safety from Every Child By Two. (Requires Flash Player)Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)VAERS is a post-marketing safety surveillance program, collecting information about adverse events (possible side effects) that occur after the administration of US licensed vaccines.Vaccine Errors Reporting Program (VERP)The Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) accepts vaccine error reports through their National Vaccine Errors Report Program. Reports are shared in confidence to VAERS and, when applicable, product vendors.National Vaccine Injury Compensation ProgramThe VICP is a no-fault alternative to the traditional tort system for resolving vaccine injury claims that provides compensation to people found to be injured by certain vaccines.Vaccine Safety Resources from the California Immunization CoalitionArticles and other resources for parents. VaccinesCalling the ShotsA PBS documentary that examines the science behind vaccinations, the return of preventable diseases, parents concerns with vaccines, and the risks of opting out.