Abbreviations: ACIP = Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices; ID = intradermal; IM = intramuscular; NAS = intranasal; NR = not relevant (does not contain thimerosal). *Immunization providers should check Food and Drug Administrationapproved prescribing information for 201617 influenza vaccines for the most complete and updated information, including (but not limited to) indications, contraindications, warnings, and precautions. Package inserts for U.S.-licensed vaccines are available at http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/Vaccines/ApprovedProducts/ucm093833.htm . Availability of specific products and presentations might change and differ from what is described in this table. Standard dose intramuscular IIVs contain 15 g of each vaccine HA antigen (45 g total for trivalents and 60 g total for quadrivalents) per 0.5mL dose. For adults and older children, the recommended site for intramuscular influenza vaccination is the deltoid muscle. The preferred site for infants and young children is the anterolateral aspect of the thigh. Specific guidance regarding site and needle length for intramuscular administration may be found in the ACIP General Recommendations on Immunization, available at http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrhtml/rr6002a1.htm. Quadrivalent inactivated influenza vaccine, intradermal: a 0.1-mL dose contains 9 g of each vaccine HA antigen (36g total). **The preferred injection site is over the deltoid muscle. Fluzone Intradermal Quadrivalent is administered using the delivery system included with the vaccine. Age indication per package insert is 5 years; however, ACIP recommends that Afluria not be used in children aged 6 months through 8 years because of increased risk for febrile reactions noted in this age group with Seqirus 2010 Southern Hemisphere IIV3. If no other age-appropriate, licensed inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine is available for a child aged 5 through 8 years who has a medical condition that increases the child's risk for influenza complications, Afluria can be used; however, providers should discuss with the parents or caregivers the benefits and risks of influenza vaccination with Afluria before administering this vaccine. Afluria may be used in persons aged 9 years. Afluria is licensed for administration by jet injector for persons aged 18 through 64 years only. Syringe tip cap might contain natural rubber latex. High-dose IIV3 contains 60 g of each vaccine antigen (180 g total) per 0.5mL dose. ***RIV3 contains 45 g of each vaccine HA antigen (135 g total) per 0.5mL dose. ACIP recommends that Flumist (LAIV4) not be used during the 201617 season.