What is the Vaccines for Children Program? (CDC web site) Which children are eligible for the Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program? How to Become a Vaccines For Children Provider in OklahomaIt's federal law! (IAC web site) You must give your patients Vaccine Information Statements (CDC web site)Additional guidance for providers regarding 9-valent HPV vaccine use among persons who previously received 2-valent HPV or 4-valent HPV vaccine.HPV Resources Talking to Your Parents about the HPV Vaccine (AAP website) HPV Champion Toolkit (AAP website)2016 Recommended Childhood and Adolescent Schedule - United States (CDC web site) Guidance for Vaccinating Children during the Pentacel Shortage (89k.pdf)Information for Parents about the Vaccines for Children Program (CDC website) The following children, birth through 18 years of age, are eligible to receive vaccine through the Vaccines For Children vaccines in Oklahoma:To find a clinic or doctor near you that participates in the VFC program call your local county health department and ask for your Immunization Field Consultant. There is no charge for any vaccines given by a VFC provider to eligible children. But there can be other costs:Information for Healthcare Providers about the Vaccines for Children ProgramHow to Become a Vaccines for Children (VFC) Provider in Oklahoma1. Complete the following forms online: 2016 VFC Provider Agreement (1mb.pdf), Provider Profile (680k.pdf), Freezer Certification Form ( k.pdf) and Oklahoma State Immunization Information System(OSIIS) Authorized Site Agreement ( k.pdf) 2. Print and sign the forms and make a copy for your records. Note: If you have any questions about completing the forms, call the Oklahoma State Department of Healths Immunization Service at 405-271-4073.3. Send the signed originals of the forms to:4. Begin recording your refrigerator and freezer temperatures using the VFC Temperature Log (256k.pdf) Refrigerator and freezer temperatures must be within the required range to store vaccines. Note that dormitory or dorm-style refrigerators are no longer acceptable for VFC vaccine storage at any time! Refer to the documents below for acceptable refrigerators and freezers to store vaccines requirements for thermometers.5. Complete the 2 VFC Orientation visits. After your forms are received in our office, you will be contacted by a representative of the Immunization Service to schedule two orientation visits:6. Receive your first shipment of vaccine. You will receive your first shipment of vaccine after the orientation visits are completed, andwhen documentation that your refrigerator and freezer temperatures are within the required temperature range for 5 days has been reviewed.Clinics enrolling in the VFC Program will receive regular visits by an Immunization Field Consultant. Back to the TopFor more information on influenza, please visit the Seasonal Influenza page and the Information for Health Professionals page on this website.For editions prior to 2015 contact the Immunization Service at (405) 271-4073