Pediatricians at the University of Michigan firmly believe that immunizations are one of the most important medical breakthroughs of the last century. Vaccines are important for your childs health. Vaccines save lives.We are a Pro-Vaccine Practice. We expect parents to immunize their children according to the schedule recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP). Parents who refuse to vaccinate their children according to the recommended schedule may be asked to sign a waiver and may not be a good fit for our practice.The AAP and the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) both recommend a vaccine schedule administering multiple immunizations at scheduled intervals and not splitting vaccines. Multiple shots and combination vaccines are utilized for three main reasons:Administration of simultaneous immunizations has been extensively studied and determined to be safe and effective. There is no negative effect on the childhood immune system. There is no medical benefit to splitting shots (and there is increased potential for harm by doing so).We strongly support these recommendations. Altered vaccine schedules may lead to medical errors and increase risk to the under-vaccinated child. In addition, they pose a risk to other children who may come into contact with your child.Parents who decline the recommended vaccine schedule may be asked to sign a waiver stating that they are aware of the potential risks inherent in doing so (including, but not limited to, decreased immunity to potential life-threatening infections), as well as the lack of medical benefit from splitting shots. Families that choose to deviate from the recommended schedule should expect that we may continue to discuss vaccination at every visit.We are happy to provide you with evidence-based literature about vaccinations and direct you to reputable websites on vaccines. We are also available to answer any and all questions you may have about vaccinations. We ask that you schedule additional appointment time for these discussions if necessary.