President-elect Donald J. Trump asked to meet with Robert F. Kennedy Jr. at Trump Tower in Manhattan to discuss issues surrounding vaccines and immunizations.On Tuesday it was revealed that Kennedy would beleading a vaccine safety commission. Theunlikely pair both call themselves pro-vaccine but want safety assurances and more scientific rigor. Kennedy Jr. has long argued for safe vaccines and for alternatives to mercury derived ingredients (thimerosal).Outspoken vaccine criticRobert Kennedy Jr. has accepted a position within Donald Trumps administration aschair of a panel on vaccine safety and scientific integrity the clearest sign yet of the president-elects suspicions aboutvaccines. President-elect Trump has some doubts about the current vaccine policies and he has questions about it, Kennedy told reporters after the meeting. His opinion doesnt matter but the science does matter and we ought to be reading the science and we ought to be debating the science. And that everybody ought to be able to be assured that the vaccines that we have hes very pro-vaccine, as am I but theyre as safe as they possibly can be.Kennedy edited a 2014 book called Thimerosal: Let the Science Speak:The Evidence Supporting the Immediate Removal of Mercurya Known Neurotoxinfrom Vaccines.The son of the late Robert Kennedy and nephew of the late John F. Kennedy now runs the environmental group called Riverkeeper.As news of this move ekes out, the corporate media is having a field day bashing Trump and Kennedy as anti-science, vaccinedeniers and autism conspiracy theorists who want to keep children from life-saving medical care. The pieces here, here, here, here,here and here were biased and carefully worded to paint the call for safety as the same as killingchildren and having a low IQ. These tactics are discussed by reporter Sharyl Attkisson in 4 Ways To Spot Big Pharmas Astroturfing And Media Manipulation.All of the outlets failed to mention that Kennedy shared a bombshell revelation last year that much of bigmedia revenue comes from Pharma sponsorship. He had said:I ate breakfast last week with the president of a network news division and he told me that during non-election years, 70% of the advertising revenues for his news division come from pharmaceutical ads. And if you go on TV any night and watch the network news, youll see they become just a vehicle for selling pharmaceuticals. He also told me that he would fire a host who brought onto his station a guest who lost him a pharmaceutical account.Themedia is further alienated from a disenfranchised audience who looks for astroturfing and sponsorship before they lend an ear and who have grown distrustful of mammoth pharmaceutical companies that fund science, lobby for mandatory injections and cannot be sued or held accountable for injury and death.This article (Robert F. Kennedy Jr. To Chair Trumps Commission on Vaccine Safety) can be republishedwith attribution tosource articleandNatural Blaze.com, keeping all links and bio intact.Heather Callaghan is an independent researcher, writer, speakerand food freedom activist. She is the Editor and co-founder ofNaturalBlaze.