Childhood vaccinations protect kids from dozens of diseases, some of which can be deadly. But how do you know that the vaccines themselves are safe? Scientists do a lot of work on these medicines before they ever get to a doctors office or pharmacy. In most cases, vaccines are some of the safest and best ways to keep kids healthy. And theyre definitely less dangerous than the diseases they aim to prevent.How Do We Know Vaccines Are Safe? Researchers have to show firm evidence that a vaccine works and is safe for people in order to get it approved by the FDA. The research to prove that can take a decade or longer. Once a vaccine gets approved, health officials use nationwide monitoring systems to watch for any reports of new or dangerous side effects. Any hint of a problem means officials will take action. They might change the vaccines label, send out safety alerts, or revoke a vaccines license.No. Some vaccines have aluminum and formaldehyde, but people, including babies, are used to these substances. In fact, babies can get more aluminum from breast milk than from vaccines.Like all medicines, vaccines can cause some side effects, like soreness, redness, and sometimes a little swelling at the spot where your child gets a shot. Some kids can have mild fevers, too. The problems usually go away after a day or two. Serious side effects, like a severe allergic reaction, seizures, hearing loss, or severe pain, are very rare -- so rare that experts aren't even sure they're linked to vaccines. After your child gets vaccinated, watch for any signs shes having a bad reaction, like trouble breathing, hives, or feeling weak or dizzy. Let her doctor know right away if you notice any changes in her.Should My Child Get a Bunch of Shots at Once? Kids come into contact with hundreds if not thousands of bacteria and viruses every day. The entire vaccine schedule exposes them to only 150 germs. Studies show that getting several shots at one time wont harm them. In fact, it might be better to get them done in fewer doctors visits. Its less stressful that way. Plus, the sooner your child is vaccinated, the sooner shell be protected.