.- "Annual re-vaccination provides no benefit and may increase the risk for adverse reactions. The percentage of vaccinated animals (those vaccinated only as puppies) protected from clinical disease after challenge with canine distemper virus, canine parvovirus and canine adenovirus in the study was greater than 95%."A growing number of veterinarians and animal lovers are seeking to avoid the horrific results of unnecessary vaccination of animals. Current and Future Canine and Feline Vaccination Programs. Dr. Ronald Schultz is a Professor and Chair of the Department of Pathobiological Sciences at the School of Veterinary Medicine, UW-Madison. Schultz, R.D. - Current and Future Canine and Feline Vaccination Programs. Vet Med 3: No. 3, 233-254, 1998Dr. Charles E Loops DVM - "The first thing that must change with routine vaccinations is the myth that vaccines are not harmful. Veterinarians and animal guardians have to come to realize that they are not protecting animals from disease by annual vaccinations, but in fact, are destroying the vitality and defense systems of these same animals they love and care for. Homeopathic veterinarians and other holistic practitioners have maintained for some time that vaccinations do more harm than they provide benefits. Vaccinations represent a major assault on the animal's immune system.... Vaccine induced chronic diseases range from life-threatening conditions such as auto-immune crises to conditions destroying the quality of life of an animal as in chronic skin allergies."Dee Blanco, D.V.M - "You take healthy animals and often very quickly after you vaccinate, you can see simple things like itching of the skin or excessive licking of the paws (right photo), sometimes even with no eruptions and licking of the air. We see a lot of epilepsy/seizure, often after a rabies vaccination. Or dogs or cats can become aggressive for several days. Frequently, you'll see urinary tract infections in cats, often within three months after their [annual] vaccination. If you step back, open your mind and heart, you'll start to see patterns of illness post-vaccination." See vaccinosis symptom of severe inflammation of the tail.Dr. Pat Bradley, DVM - "In a general and frightening context, I see the overall wellness and longevity of animals deteriorating. The bodies of most animals have a tremendous capacity to detoxify poisons, but they do have a limit. I think we often exceed that limit and overwhelm the body's defense system function with toxins from vaccines. The most common problems I see that are directly related to vaccines on a day to day basis are ear or skin conditions, such as chronic discharges and itching. I also see behavior problems such as fearfulness or aggression. Often guardians will report that these begin shortly after vaccination and are exacerbated with every vaccine."Dr. Donna Kelleher, a Seattle-based veterinarian who uses acupuncture and chiropractic, says that improving an animals immune system will negate the need for most vaccines. Vaccines, she says, have been shown to cause auto-immune diseases. I feel they may be responsible for arthritis, skin, liver and kidney problems as well. as well.- "We should not allow politics and tradition or greed to enter the decision (on frequency of vaccination). Changing vaccination schedules doesn't have to mean less profit, but that you have more income from some clients and less from others. Veterinarians and the industry need to have guts to be honest with ourselves and assess the risk and not be trapped in tradition."Dr. Christina Chambreau, DVM - "Routine vaccinations are probably the worst thing that we do for our animals. They cause all types of illnesses but not directly to where we would relate them definitely to be caused by the vaccine. Repeating vaccinations on a yearly basis undermines the whole energetic well-being of our animals. Animals do not seem to be decimated by one or two vaccines when they are young and veterinary immunologists tell us that viral vaccines need only be given once or twice in an animal's life. First, there is no need for annual vaccinations and, second, they definitely cause chronic disease. As a homeopath, it is almost impossible to cure an animal without first addressing the problems that vaccines have caused to the animal, no matter what the species."Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association - Adverse events diagnosed within three days of vaccine administration in dogs study of more than 2,000 cats and dogs in the United Kingdom by Canine Health Concern showed a 1 in 10 risk of adverse reactions from vaccines. This contradicts what the vaccine manufacturers report for rates of adverse reactions, which is less than 15 adverse reactions in 100,000 animals vaccinated (0.015 percent). Additionally, adverse reactions of small breeds are 10 times higher than large breeds, suggesting standard vaccine doses are too high for smaller animals.A great number of studies have shown that when you vaccinate an animal, the body's inflammatory cytokines not only increase dramatically, but so do the brain's inflammatory chemicals. Many pet guardians observe changes in a pet subsequent to the first series of animal vaccinations - lethargy, vomiting, itching, ear or eye discharge, to name but a few. The veterinarian will reassure you that these symptoms are normal. Sadly, for some companion animals, these symptoms worsen and lead to death. For other pets, they lead to a lifetime of health problems.My German Shepherd dog Shasta, had a similar looking tail. It was a direct result of adverse reaction to vaccines. The inflamed area of the tail would swell up with fluid and became extremely sensitive, painful and very itchy. Poor Shasta would constantly bite and lick the area. Correctly prescribed homeopathic remedies can often undue the damage caused by vaccines. Homeopathy is noted for its success to antidote or remove the toxic effects of vaccines and to re-establish balance in the organism and restore health. Certain homeopathic remedies taken after vaccination can minimize vaccine damage. A professional homeopathic vet should be consulted for more information. Dr. Falconer DVM also uses a unique immune molecules to help support the animal's defense system before and after vaccination. Some people have found that marine phytoplankton is also effective in improving their animals' overall health.My other German Shepherd dog Kuuma had a different reaction to vaccines. Soon after I rescued Kuuma, I noticed an inflamed spot 2 or 3 inches in diameter on his left thigh which he constantly licked. That was precisely the spot where he had been vaccinated. I treated him with homeopathic remedies and rubbed neem oil on the wound. Within a few weeks the area was healed. A few years later, Kuuma experienced a bizarre symptom of sudden and unexplained strange behavior. One afternoon, he became restless and started crying in pain anytime I would just walk by him, as though the movement of the air was hurting him ?!?!? That same morning, we had an hour long walk in the hills and he was perfectly fine. At home, he laid by my side all day, sleeping peacefully.The symptoms occurred suddenly by mid-afternoon when he woke up. When I tried to pet him, he would yelp as if he had been hit. He was in constant pain, yet he had no injury and no fever. I suspected vaccine reaction and tried numerous homeopathic remedies such as Silica, Thuja, as well as Rhus Tox and Arsenicum for his restless behavior, but none helped.That night, poor Kuuma could barely sleep and cried almost all the time. The next day, I gave him a single dose of the homeopathic nosode remedy. Lyssin (hydrophobinum) 200 C and within hours, I saw major improvement. For the first time in 18 hours he was able to sleep again and wouldn't yelp in pain every time I walked by him. If I had left this dog with a dog sitter or in a boarding place, I would have been convinced that someone had mistreated him severely. Kuuma is a very healthy, fearless high spirited dog. I had never seen him looking so pitiful and miserable before. Lyssin is available from Dr. Charles Loops DVM -- (A few hours after giving him Lyssin, I also gave him a single dose of Lachesis 30 C when I observed that sleep aggravated his symptoms)Vaccines 'are making our dogs sick as vets cash in' Profit-hungry drug companies and vets are 'frightening' dog owners into inoculating their pets more often than necessary, according to Canine Health Concern. Some puppies have developed conditions including autism and epilepsy after a raft of injections, it warns.Dr. Richard H. Pitcairn, D.V.M., Ph.D - "For some readers the very idea that vaccines are anything but wonderful and life-saving may come as a surprise, and it's not a very pleasant one."Dr. Blanco DVM notes that while more and more health care providers become enlightened and refuse to vaccinate their kids and patients, they often forget about their animals. This seminar will be a reminder that the animals are under a huge assault with vaccinations. Dr. Blanco will expose the trade off of using dangerous vaccines against acute disease verses the risk of increased chronic, debilitating disease. She will analyze the dangers of vaccine ingredients such as thimerisol, aluminum and formaldehyde and the related disorders of behavior including ADHD-like tendencies, aggression, seizures, chronic distemper, chronic parvo and chronic rabies.She will also give recommendations for using vaccines in the safest manner (only where required by law), not using vaccines at all or using homeopathic nosodes. Dr. Blanco will show how the historical model of small pox vaccinations and their following diseases gave much information to the homeopathic treatment of vaccine induced illness - the model she uses daily. She will also explore the lack of animal rights in medicine and vaccines specifically.In 1997 Canine Health Concern conducted a survey on 4000 dogs and found that 61.5% of dogs developed liver failure within three months of being vaccinated ,73.1% of epileptic dogs first became epileptic within three months of being vaccinated, 64.9% of dogs with behavioral problems started to be a problem within three months of vaccination.Hypertrophic osteodystrophy causes lameness and extreme pain in young growing dogs, usually of a large breed. Great danes, German shepherds, Dobermans, Detrievers and Weimaraners are examples of breeds that may be affected by this condition. It appears to occur in Weimaraners as a vaccine reaction and this may also affect Mastiffs and Great Danes. In this case, it usually occurs a few days after vaccination and may appear to be worse than the "average" case on radiographs.They usually have painful swellings around the lower joints on the legs. HOD usually shows up as an acute lameness, often seeming to affect all four legs simultaneously. Affected dogs may stand in a "hunched up" stance or refuse to stand up at all. They may have a fever but this is not consistently present. Some puppies will die from this disease, some suffer permanent disability but many recover later.The disease is so painful that many owners elect to euthanize the puppy rather than watch it suffer, despite the reasonably good chance for recovery, long term. Affected dogs may be so ill that they refuse to eat."Tommy was in excellent condition and was a Champion show dog who was Top Dobermann in the UK 2000. In May 2002 we took Tommy to the Vet for blood tests to see whether he needed his Booster and the Vet advised we should give the Leptospirosis vaccine as this was safe and would definitely be needed. On his return home, Tommy was very quiet and went and lay upstairs on his own. When we tried to get him to come downstairs, he had problems getting up off the bed and was un-coordinated. He then tried to get on the bed in the other bedroom and when we tried to help him, he fell back screaming in pain and could not move."I get this question more often than I used to: If Im not vaccinating my animal against parvo and distemper (or ----) do I need to avoid contact with other animals? The norm has been for my patients to come to me already vaccinated, so the easy answer, based on duration of immunity, was no, the immunity should persist for years if not the life of the animal. Now that people have thought more about the dangers of vaccination, it may be that some are choosing not to vaccinate until later in life (pups at 12-16 weeks old, for example), to be sure the minimum number of vaccines will give long-lived immunity. They may be using homeopathic nosodes before that, or may be opting to not vaccinate at all. What to do for these guys? Keep them in a bubble, away from all exposure to possible disease causing germs? No. Thats impractical, and, unless you have a strictly indoor cat, not much fun.I use a variety of to improve my animal's health and to protect the integrity of their immune systemThe goal is to have an immune system that can defend the animal against exposure to parvo, canine or feline distemper, kennel cough, FeLV, strangles, flu, Rhino, etc. If you opt to have the strongest defense system possible without the risks that vaccines confer, use the preventative program that keeps the disease resistance strong safely and efficaciously, and without risk to the animal. That, in my opinion, is daily dosing with the Animal Health supplements utilizing a product that boost the immune system, coupled with excellent nutrition should be an adequate support.Question to Dr. Falconer:: does vaccination (or over-vaccination) causes overactive immune reaction (autoimmune disorder) or does it cause suppression of the immune system?Dr. Will Falconer D.V.M: "The answer is YES. Probably both. Vaccination *confuses* the immune system, as I point out in my heart worm eBook. So, it could go either way, or alternate over time between the two. There is a natural nutritional product that help support the animal's immune system. A healthy immune system is capable of helping the body heal itself. This immune supplement should be given before and immediately after vaccination for at least a few weeks to help ameliorate the confusion (when someone is faced with a mandatory vaccination, or has decided they want to give one) and protect the integrity of the defense system. "Homeopathy is also renowned for its success to antidote or remove the toxic effects of vaccines and to re-establish balance in health. Certain homeopathic remedies such as thuja, sulphur and silica taken before and after vaccination can protect from vaccine damage. Please consult a professional homeopath for more information. (see list of holistic and homeopathic veterinarians) Many families are now also using homeopathic nosodes as an alternative to vaccines for their children and their pets. Nosodes are available from Dr. Charles LoopsWorld-renown vaccine research scientist and practicing veterinarian, Dr. W. Jean Dodds of California, and pet vaccine disclosure advocate, Kris L. Christine of Maine, have established The Rabies Challenge Fund to raise money to fund a 7 year rabies vaccine challenge study in the United States. Many dog caregivers across the country are becoming more and more aware of the possibility that over vaccination can have harmful effects on dogs - and the rabies vaccine is no exception. The incidence of rabies exposure in companion animals and humans, though very low today, still remains a distinct possibility.Consequently, the Federal and state governments require every dog to be vaccinated triennially (still even annually or biannually in a few states) against rabies. However, the veterinary community is increasingly concerned that rabies vaccination given this frequently is not only unnecessary but also responsible for inducing adverse reactions that lead to both acute and chronic immunological and other disorders. Although a French medical study completed in 1992 showed that rabies vaccine is protective for at least five years, Federal and state legislatures have not accepted this finding. Thus, the health and well-being of millions of dogs in the United States remain threatened by the potential for adverse vaccinial events.In her story, A Cat, a Bat and Rabies Vaccination, Kimberly Roush writes that the risk of side effects from the vaccines is frightening, but nothing is a scary as the state coming to confiscate your cat and possibly chop off his head. This summer, in Utah, there were at least 3 stories in the news of cats having had some contact with bats that were only overdue for a rabies vaccines. All of the cats were put to sleep as no one was willing to pay for the cost of a 6 month quarantine. I believe over 300 animals in Utah were put to sleep in 2007 because of bat encounters and lack of or late vaccines."All mandatory rabies vaccination programs are colorable law, in that they have been passed and mandated upon the pet owning public by certain vested interest groups. Who are these groups? First and foremost are veterinarians, in general, and veterinarian medical organizations. Second are the local animal control personnel, bureaucrats and politicians. What are their reasons? GREED, POWER AND CONTROL. Both these large powerful interest groups stand to benefit greatly by having rabies mandated by colorable law.""Veterinarians receive a large percentage of both their gross income and profit from vaccines given in the office. On average vaccines cost 60 to 95 cents per dose and are charged to the client at $15 to $25 per injection and substantially more in the large cities. Therefore, if veterinarians lobby to have a colorable law passed to give rabies vaccine every year that enhances their financial picture.""The vaccines, particularly rabies, are a political and economic scam being forced upon pet owners because they do not know the truth."Recent editions of the Senior Dogs Project's newsletter have reported on the ever-broadening trend of eliminating vaccinations for adult dogs, except for rabies, where required by state law. We have now had a report that all 27 veterinary schools in North America are in the process of changing their protocols for vaccinating dogs and cats. Here, in a nutshell, are the new guidelines under consideration: "Dogs and cats immune systems mature fully at 6 months. If a modified live virus (MLV) vaccine is given after 6 months of age, it produces immunity, which is good for the life of the pet (i.e., canine distemper, parvo, feline distemper). If another MLV vaccine is given a year later, the antibodies from the first vaccine neutralize the antigens of the second vaccine and there is little or no effect. The titer is not 'boosted' nor are more memory cells induced." Not only are annual boosters for parvo and distemper unnecessary, they subject the pet to potential risks of allergic reactions and immune-mediated hemolytic anemia. There is no scientific documentation to back up label claims for annual administration of MLV vaccines. Puppies receive antibodies through their mothers milk. This natural protection can last 8-14 weeks. Puppies and kittens should NOT be vaccinated at LESS than 8 weeks. Maternal immunity will neutralize the vaccine and little protection (0-38%) will be produced. Vaccination at 6 weeks will, however, delay the timing of the first highly effective vaccine. Vaccinations given 2 weeks apart suppress rather than stimulate the immune system. A series of vaccinations is given starting at 8 weeks and given 3-4 weeks apart up to 16 weeks of age. Another vaccination given sometime after 6 months of age (usually at 1 year 4 months) will provide lifetime immunity."Related: The horrific results of allowing the necessary vaccination of companion animals to continueChrissie Mason B.R.C.P., Ph.D. - "I am becoming seriously concerned at the increase in the cases of Auto-immune disease, and the Canine/Feline vaccination program which I consider to be inextricably linked. Certainly, I do not stand alone in holding these views, as a number of Orthodox Veterinary Practitioners have expressed their concern over the incidence of certain types of illness suddenly appearing after immunizations have been administered. Often these are severe skin disorders, gastrointestinal disturbances, sickness and colitis symptoms, all of which have been observed and recorded.A further occurrence observed by some Veterinarians is that of a tumor or growth appearing directly on or around the sight of the annual injection, this is particularly noticeable in the feline world, and can take the form of fibrosarcoma. Indeed, the list of symptoms that can be linked with the over exuberant immunizations appears endless: warty growths, tumors of both malignant and benign type, seizures, skin problems, bone and joint disorders. In America the Veterinary Immunologists claim that vaccinations should only be given once or twice during an animal's life time.There is no need or evidence to prove that annual vaccination programs are either essential or effective. On the contrary research suggests that no dog over the age of 7 years of age derives benefit from the annual vaccine schedule. Furthermore, those animals submitted to the annual boosters, go on to display exacerbation of joint related ills in later life."The leptospirosis portion of the DHLPP (distemper) vaccine for dogs has a reputation for being the most likely portion to cause vaccine reactions. This is largely because of the size of the organism. (Most vaccine is directed against viruses that are barely bigger than complicated molecules. Theleptospirosis organism is a bacterium, meaning it is enormous and more complicated than any virus. The more complicated the organism, the more likely the reaction. That said, in the aforementioned study of over one million dogs, the leptospirosis vaccine was not found to be more likely to cause a reaction. This may be because of improved vaccine technology and using only portions of the organism rather than the entire bacterium. Other leptospirosis vaccine may not be as well produced as the one that happened to be used in this study so, as a precaution you can request that this portion be left out of your dog's vaccine.) The Lyme disease organism is also a bacterium as is the periodontal vaccine (the Porphyromonas vaccine). Again, larger vaccine organisms tend to produce more reactions.Keep in mind that vaccines given within two weeks of each other can interfere with each other so you do not want to separate vaccines by less than a two week period but separating vaccine can mean your pet has less stimulation to deal with at one time. Breaking up vaccines also helps determine which vaccine is the culprit.Vaccination clinics are designed to provide streamlined service for healthy pets in need of their regular immunizations. These clinics are generally not prepared for the individual attention required by a pet who has a history of vaccination reaction. A pet with a vaccine reaction history should receive some special attention in the form of observation in the hospital and/or pre-treatment with anti-inflammatory medication.Allen M. Schoen, D.V.M., M.S. - "As far as prevention goes, this is a sticky wicket. There is a great deal of controversy concerning the dog Lyme vaccine. There is a great debate about how well they actually work as well as potential side effects. There are publications concerning its safety, but the researchers only look 24 hours after the vaccine reaction. Research at Cornell University veterinary school brings up some suspicion that there may be potential long term side effects of the vaccine, though nothing is certain. These side effects may vary from rheumatoid arthritis and all the major symptoms of Lyme disease to acute kidney failure. Though nothing is definitively documented, I personally am very cautious and do not recommend vaccinating for Lyme disease even though it is so epidemic here. Many veterinary schools and major veterinary centers do not recommend the vaccine for the same concern regarding potential side effects. I have seen all the symptoms of Lyme disease in dogs four to eight weeks after the vaccine and when I sent the western blot test to Cornell, it shows no evidence of the disease, only evidence of the dog having been vaccinated, yet the dog shows all the classic symptoms of the disease. There is a new dog vaccine out that claims that it does not have any of the side effects, however, I still remain cautious and will wait for a year or two to see. I personally would rather treat my dog for Lyme disease rather than risking the potential side effects of the vaccine. In addition, there is a question of actually how well it works. Until more safety and decreased risk of side effects and efficacy are demonstrated, I recommend holding off."Homeopaths have referred to vaccine induced problems as "vaccinosis" for decades. From my experience and that of others, I say without reservation that many chronic diseases are caused by vaccinations. I often find that a health problem began shortly after vaccination. I am certain this is no coincidence. Fortunately, homeopathy can help. Unfortunately, vaccines are a BILLION dollar industry and vets make a large part of their income from them. Despite the new findings, there is no move to reduce vaccine use. Most use the excuse that they don't want to be sued should an animal become ill. Another rationalization is that some pets are not protected despite vaccination therefore, it is best to vaccinate every pet to be safe. If vets knew how much damage they were doing, I believe most would change. There is too much power and money promoting more vaccines. Vets are inundated with sales people, advertisements and marketing materials telling them how important and lucrative vaccines are.Dr. Richard H. Pitcairn, D.V.M., Ph.D - "In the process of training as a doctor or veterinarian, one goes in as a relatively naive young person. The conditioning is heavy; it costs a lot of money, and of course you want to do well. Students are told how wonderful vaccines are, and they don't really question it; they accept as a fact that they're these great boons to health, are never harmful, and have saved a lot of livesit's black and white. The companies making the vaccines have great amounts of money and influence to campaign and advertise. You have a situation on the one hand where doctors are conditioned to accept, and on the other hand companies powerful enough to squelch negative comment."Dr. Driston Sherman, DVM - " When I was doing primary allopathic medicine, I saw two things. One is that within an hour after the vaccination was given, the animal was having trouble breathing or may have had redness of the skin. The other thing I saw quite often was usually about twelve to twenty-four hours after being vaccinated, animals with fever, loss of appetite, sleeping a lot, sometimes vomitting or diarrhea. Most of those cases usually took care of themselves without any intervention within twenty-four hours. Now that I'm doing holistic medicine, it's really intriguing to look at the medical histories of animals. One case that comes to mind is a cat with a history of these horrible-looking sores that occurred exactly 30 days after being vaccinated - two years in a row. You may want to call that coincidence. I have my suspicions but I can't say , for sure, what caused these conditions, which is very frustrating."Immune-mediated hematological disease and transient bone marrow failure are increasingly recognized sequels of...vaccination. ... Postvacinal polyneuropathy is a recognized entity associated with...vaccines. ...Adverse reactions to vaccination have also recently been reported with increasing frequency in cats." (Dr. Dodds, 1990)Without some driving force for change, there is no motivation for the industry to change the most lucrative part of its practice. Many vets cling to annual vaccine schedules because of economic dependence more than maintaining a cautious standard of care. This is particularly true for the typical small vet practices (1-3 people, non-specialty, non-emergency practices).Consider this One dose of rabies vaccine costs the vet about 61 cents. The client is typically charged between $15 and $38, plus a $35 office visit. The markup on the vaccine alone is 2,400 percent to 6,200 percenta markup equivalent to charging $217 for a loaf of bread. According to one estimate, removing the one-year rabies vaccination and consequential office visit for dogs alone would decrease the average small vets income from $87,000 to $25,000and this doesnt include cats or other vaccinations.According to James Schwartz, author of Trust Me, Im Not a Veterinarian, 63 percent of canine and 70 percent of feline vet office visits are for vaccinations. Clearly, radically changing the vaccine schedule for dogs and cats would result in a huge economic loss for any veterinary practice that is built around shots. And chances are the vaccines you are paying so much for are creating even more income for vets, because the adverse reactions and other medical issues caused by the vaccines keep Fluffy coming back often!The profits for vets pale in comparison to the profits being enjoyed by vaccine manufacturers. Veterinary vaccine sales amounted to more than $3.2 million in 2004 and have risen 7 percent per year since 2000. This figure is projected to exceed $4 billion in 2009. Six companies account for more than 70percent of world veterinary vaccine sales. The market leader is Intervet, with sales of almost $600 million in 2004. Thats a whole lot of 61-cent vaccines. The United States has by far the largest share of the national market with revenues of $935 million, and Japan comes in second with $236 million.MuShu had always been vaccinated and given her booster shots since she was 8 weeks old. I had done everything my vet had told me to do. After all, I love my dog and wanted her to have a healthy happy life. When MuShu was 5 yrs. old, I took her in for her routine vaccines. I live about 5 min. from my vet clinic and by the time I got home with her and got into the house, she was scratching herself like crazy. Even dragging her tummy across the floor and rolling all around. When I looked at her closer, I saw she had developed hives all over. She then got up to come to me and could not walk in a straight line. She vomited and fell over and could not get up. I grabbed my keys and MuShu