Pneumococcus is a germ (bacterium) which can cause pneumonia, meningitis and some other infections. Pneumococcal infections can affect anybody, but they are particularly common in young children. Some pneumococcal infections are more serious than others.Immunisation against pneumococcus is part of the routine childhood immunisation programme in the UK. The routine schedule consists of three injections which are normally given at age 2 months, 4 months and between the ages of 12 and 13 months.There are two types of vaccine available to protect against pneumococcal infection, but only one of these works well in young children. It is called pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV). The brand name of the vaccine used for childhood immunisation is Prevenar 13.The second type of vaccine is called pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV) and is used for adults and for children over 2 years of age. There is another separate medicine leaflet called Pneumococcal vaccine for adultswhich provides more information about this vaccine.The vaccine stimulates your child's immune system to make antibodies against pneumococcal infections. These antibodies then help to protect your child from illness should they become infected with pneumococcal bacteria. The vaccine protects against many (but not all) types of pneumococcal bacteria.Before your child is given PCV, make sure your doctor knows:Along with their useful effects, vaccines like most medicines can cause unwanted side-effects, although not every child experiences them. Pneumococcal immunisation often causes no problems, but the table below contains some of the side-effects which may occur. You will find a full list in the manufacturer's information leaflet supplied with the vaccine. Speak with a doctor or nurse if any of the following side-effects continue or become troublesome.You will normally be asked by the doctor or nurse to wait several minutes after the immunisation to make sure that your child does not react badly to the vaccine. Although allergic reactions are extremely rare, you should seek urgent medical advice if your child becomes breathless, or if any swelling or a rash develops within a few days of the immunisation.If you experience any other symptoms which you think may be due to the vaccine, speak with your doctor or pharmacist.