Prevnar, the vaccine against the pneumococcus bacterium, is one of the greatest pharmaceutical innovations of the past two decades. In children who are vaccinated, it eliminated most of the pneumonia and meningitis that bacteria causes. It proved so effective, in fact, that fewer pneumococcal infections occur in people over 65 who have never gotten the vaccine, because the germs are no longer circulating. It has, quite simply, changed the world for the better.We don't see significant pneumococcal disease in kids anymore, says Kenneth Bromberg, chairman of the department of pediatrics at Brooklyn Hospital Center. He remembers when brain and bloodstream infections and deadly pneumonias used to be a regular occurrence, and now they don't happen at all all because of the Prevnar vaccine, which is given as one of the standard inoculations of childhood.You wouldn't know that, though, if you read this piece by Joseph Mercola, an osteopathic doctor who writes and sells supplements through his popular website, Mercola.com, which advertises itself as The World's #1 Natural Health Website. His take on Prevnar? Headline: Pneumonia vaccine shown to increase the infections it is supposed to prevent. The piece, which was published in May and recently retweeted again by Mercola, has 2,400 Facebook shares and 55,000 page views. Mercola tells his readers that Vaccines can actually compromise your immune function and instructs them to focus on their gut flora the bacteria that live in their intestines and their vitamin D levels.Both of my kids got the requisite vaccinations up until just a few years ago when I discovered Dr. Mercola, writes commenter remitrom on the article. Each time they have a check-up I cringe waiting for the doctor to suggest more shots. However, I was pleasantly surprised not to get any fight from the pediatrician when we decline. She actually told me about her own hindsight and wish that she didn't vaccinate her own children.How does Mercola arrive at his conclusions about Prevnar? He bases them around one fact: That when the pneumococcus strains covered by Prevnar are eliminated, other bacteria fill in the empty ecological niche, so cases go up. But he ignores the dramatic reduction in all these infections caused by the Prevnar vaccine.Heck, everybody would prefer the current circumstance over the old one because in absolute numbers there's much less disease,says William Schaffner, chair of preventative medicine at Vanderbilt University Medical Center.There is a drug resistant bacterial strain, called 19A, that became more prevalent as it filled the niche left by the bacteria vanquished by Prevnar. But it is still not that common. In fact, one paper Mercola cites, which noted a 71% increase in the prevalence of 19A, also said there had been a dramatic 44%reduction in invasive pneumococcal disease, including pneumonia, meningitis, and bloodstream infections -- and that includes the increase in 19A. The new vaccine, Prevnar 13, introduced in 2010, protects against the deadly 19A strain, which now appears to be on the wane.The graphs below paint a clear picture of how the rise of 19A is overwhelmingly outweighed by the decrease in pneumococcal disease. They come from a scientific paper published by the Journal of Infectious Diseases in November 2009. Prevnar is referred to as PCV7 (for pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 7). The first graph looks at what happened to cases of invasive pneumococcal disease when the vaccine was introduced.There is a dramatic decrease in the number of cases of invasive pneumococcal disease in kids under five the ones getting vaccinated. As you can see with that red line, the number of cases decrease from 100 cases per 100,000 people to 20 cases per 100,000 people. There is also a slight decrease in the number of cases occurring in the people over 65, who were apparently catching pneumococcus from kids.But what about the dreaded 19A strain? Let's look at what happened with the 19A strain in children under 5. Here, bacteria are grouped into PCV7-type (the bacteria in the vaccine); non-PCV7-type (not in the vaccine); and 19A (the really scary bacteria).As you can see, the vast majority of cases were caused by the PCV7 bacteria, and they go close to zero; there is, however, a spike in the PCV13 bacteria.What about in the adults 65 and over who are the other people who get severe pneumococcal disease, including pneumonia, bloodstream infections, and meningitis? Here we see that the overall decrease is much lower, with the non-PCV7 bacteria taking up a lot of the slack left by the bacteria that were vanquished by the vaccine.So did the vaccine make room for new types of bacteria? Yes, a little. But it had a much more dramatic effect in decreasing the overall number of infections, and if the story ended there, the vaccine would still be well worth it. But it doesn't end there. In 2010, Pfizer introduced a new Prevnar vaccine, called Prevnar 13, that includes 19A and many of those strains. And there is already evidence that 19A is being impacted just as the other strains were. The vaccine doesn't offer complete protection, because no vaccine does, but the protection it affords is substantial. Obviously, healthy, well-developed immune systems are protection against these bacteria; that's why these infections are happening in small children and senior citizens. That's no reason to forego protection.Imagine fighting a war the way Mercola is suggesting we fight our battle with bacteria. Would you really choose not to use a weapon that could kill most of the enemy just because it might leave a few especially hardy individuals behind?Prevnar is expensive for a vaccine. Prevnar 13 now costs $508 per course, and generates $4 billion in global annual sales. Call that profiteering if you want. But the reality is that it and its predecessor, the original Prevnar, have changed our world in ways we experience every day but don't even notice because you don't think about pneumococcus until it is in your kid's ears, lungs, blood or brain.This story has been edited slightly from an original version for readability.