Now, some people may be aware of side effects if theyve done any kind of basic research. The CDC tells us that side effects can be mild, moderate or severe . Basic information might also come from a medical provider who takes the time to have a conversation about them. Information may also come from the VIS (Vaccine Information Sheet) . This handout, usually a two-sided piece of paper, is required by law to be given to someone receiving certain vaccines.Side effects arent being mentioned in the articles Ive viewed lately, and the moms I run into are still unaware of them, so its time to expose them for what they are. Side effects are dangerous. Side effects happen. They can, and will, a last long after a vaccine is administered.Can you imagine if vaccine news stories across the mainstream channels would actually reveal all there is to know about the vaccine--including the bad stuff? Im talking about the side effects, the lingering pain and the secondary illnesses that turn into everyday struggles after receiving a vaccination. That information should be discussed more openly in the exam room and in the news but hardly seems to be. I know this because Ive been there in that exam room before and never got that sort of information. People I speak to today about their vaccine encounters say the same thing. When I hear from them, as they reach out to me for help, its clear that the right things are still not being said: When do I worry about this rash? The doctor didnt tell me anything! What? I never knew you can still get the chickenpox after getting the chickenpox vaccine! What should I do about this fever? Its so high, and it wont go down!I cant shake the disappointment I feel after seeing these stories. Most of what Ive read lauds vaccines claiming that they are safe despite their side effects, and that theyll work if we give them a chance, and whats the big deal, anyway? Oh, when they dont work? Well, were sorry, lets move on. I know I speak for many when I say that that kind of news reporting is depressing and unacceptable.No matter what Im readinga magazine, a mainstream newspaper, or a blog, I cant escape mention of vaccines these days. Sure, I subscribe to a few places that typically highlight only vaccine news, but Im reading about them in other places, and the news isnt looking good.For the last few weeks most of my posts here have been about vaccines and vaccine safety. Some of you may be missing my usual hopefully-ever-after writing, but vaccines have been bugging me lately. When that happens, I dont feel very hopeful or very happy.Basic is good, but getting as much information as possible is better.With as many things that can go wrong with vaccines, youd think reading each of the package inserts would be required reading. Maybe then people would understand more about them like who its been tested on (or not tested on), how long it was studied, what its made of and what its been known to do to the body. But, since that document isnt the one that is usually shared with patients, heres a quick recap of the side effects that can happen post vaccination (note: this is not a complete list):Besides having to disclose that side effects happen, I wonder, though, if in listing them that those promoting vaccines believe that side effects could be viewed as a good thing. Side effects mean that the body is reacting. It shows that the body recognizes that somethings been injected or inhaled. The bodys trying to figure out what to do with these toxins that make up the vaccine. It may show that the immune system is responding. As the body responds, some might say that the side effects are part of the vaccination process.A response from the immune system means that the immune system works, right? We want our immune system to work. What does that mean, though, when the vaccine kicks the immune system into overdrive which may lead to complications which then leads to death? The vaccine did something. It may not have guaranteed immunity or helped prevent a disease, but instead it elicited a different response: death. Whats at fault: the vaccine? the toxic ingredients? the bodys ill response?Many factors will surely need to be investigated. Unfortunately, though, when side effects occur, that persons family cant find fault with the vaccine manufacturer or their doctor, which is why its important to understand fully not only what a vaccine can do and but what a vaccine will do. When considering vaccines, there is much to consider.So, if this information about side effects is news for you, and it scares you, Im sorry to be the bearer of bad news. If this information sounds old and like Ive become the most annoying broken record ever to exist about vaccines and vaccine safety, its because this information needs to be said over and over again until more people are aware of it.Why do people like me feel the need to keep repeating this? Because I care. I care about what is being said about vaccines and what is not being said about vaccines. Because the VIS barely scratches the surface. Because two pages is hardly enough space to truly inform someone about the supposed benefits as well as reveal the countless documented side effects every vaccine on the market carries. Because side effects and adverse events arent just a one-time thing. Because vaccine injury is real. Because it lasts longer than you can imagine. Because it will rob you of your abilities, your health, your time and your money as you try to reverse the affects.Those who might be profiting from vaccinations may not being saying what needs to be said very clearly. But if we whove witnessed the side effects can say it clearer, better and louder, then so be it.Look things up on your own.Realize that side effects can be worse than the disease-preventable vaccine itself.Remember, too, that when you vaccinate you can never UNvaccinate.If more people knew about vaccine side effects and how devastating they can be, Id expect we might see much less vaccine injury and death. Id expect more people would do one of two things also: really begin to question vaccines or start to decline them. Neither of those are a bad thing.Cathy Jameson is a Contributing Editor for Age of Autism.