The road-map leading to most neurological & neuro-developmental disorders traces back to the earliest vaccines administered to babies (HEP B, DTaP, PCV, RV, HIB, IPV, MMR). Timing is the key a premature breach of the delicate, under-developed electrical grid network designed to protect the babys brain & nervous system (Myelin Sheath, Blood-Brain Barrier, Meninges).According to the CDCs Recommended Immunization Schedule for Persons Aged 0 Through 6 YearsUnited States 2012 by 15 months the average child has received 25 injections including: 3 doses of Hepatitis B, Rotavirus, HIB (Haemophilus Influenzae Type b), IPV (Inactivated Polio Vaccine) & Hepatitis A, 4 doses of DPT (Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus) & PCV (Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine), 1 dose of Varicella & Meningococcal and 2 doses of MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella).Often overlooked as a major catalyst in vaccine related trauma (typically in deference to the Measles, Mumps, Rubella shots), it turns out the hidden dangers of the PCV Vaccine may, in fact, supersede those of the MMR series for a number of critical reasons; a combination of factors, chiefly timing & the extreme nature of bacterial build-up impinging on the under-developed Immune system in babies. All vaccinated children in the Western hemisphere are now carriers of what is known as MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus/anti-biotic resistant super-bug), due to cross-infection primarily from the routine administering of the Pneumococcal (PCV) Vaccine in combination with post vaccination anti-biotic & anti-viral drug treatment, an accumulative assault which strips a child of his/her natural anti-biotic resistance whilst infecting them with a host of bacterial serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F, 23F) leaving them totally vulnerable to Middle ear infections, high-grade seizures, Pneumonia, Myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle), Endocarditis (inflammation of the inner lining of the heart valves), Osteomyelitis (acute or chronic inflammatory process of the bone), Toxic Shock Syndrome (TSS), Bacteremia (presence of viable bacteria in the circulating blood) & Septicemia (blood poisoning), Meningitis (inflammation of the membranes/meninges surrounding the brain & spinal cord, usually due to the spread of an infection), and even sudden death. The current generation have literally become unwitting hosts to a form of bacterial roulette, an ideal breeding ground for the proliferation & weaponizing of bacterial infections. The PCV Vaccine PREVNAR (Pneumococcal 7-valent Conjugate Vaccine: Diphtheria CRM197 Protein manufactured by Pfizer/Wyeth), introduced in 2000 as part of the standard immunization program throughout the West, and its later version PCV13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]), approved by the FDA on February 24, 2010, is typically administered to babies in 4 stages (2, 4, 6 & 12-15 months) and further given to adults 19-64 with varying chronic conditions (lung, heart, liver or kidney disease; asthma, diabetes, alcoholism/smokers, HIV/AIDS, cancer, damaged/absent spleen). According to the CDC it is ostensibly designed to project against blood infections, pneumonia, and meningitis, mostly in young childrendeafness and brain damage. Hospitals around the world have concurrently reported a dramatic spike in the incidence & virulence of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus since 2000. In the United States in particular, Since 2000, several reports have documented the presence of MRSA infections in previously unaffected outpatient populationsa dramatic shift in the microbial flora of soft tissue infections has occurred recently in the United States. Popovich et al. in 2008 reported data from 2000-2006 in Chicagos Stroger Hospital/Rush University Medical Center that showed a stable rate of hospital acquired strains of MRSA infections, but a rapidly increasing rate of community acquired strains of MRSA seen in the hospital from 24% between January 2000 and June 2003 to 49% between July 2003 and December 2006. Note: This increase coincides precisely with the release of the first Pneumococcal (PCV) Vaccine on the market PCV7, containing the 7 most common pneumococcal serotypes causing invasive infections in children in North America was licensed in the US and recommended for routine use in infants in 2000.Elsewhere the same trend is being documented. In Queensland, Eastern Australia, in 2000 to 2006, population-based surveillance of antibiotic resistance patterns of MRSA strains causing infections among inpatients demonstrated an increase from 71 to 315 cases/1 million accrued patient-days for non-MDR (i.e., resistant to at least one non--lactam antibiotic and susceptible to ciprofloxacin)-resistant strains. A similar large increase was documented among outpatients during this period, from 52 to 490 cases/1 million outpatient visits, suggesting a rapid dissemination of the non-MDR MRSA strains.The main antimicrobial resistance profiles changed from TC-GM-CI-EM-CM in 2000 to TC-GM-CIEM-CM-RI in 2005. The main pulsed-field gel electrophoresis type changed from types C, L, and E in 2000 to types J, F, and N, respectively, in 2005. ST239-MRSA-III was the most predominant clone in 2000 and 2005, whereas ST5-MRSA-II was found only in 2005. Conclusions: There were increasing levels of antimicrobial resistance and epidemiological changes in the hospital-associated MRSA strains isolated in this facility between 2000 and 2005. Increasing Resistance in Multiresistant Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus Clones Isolated from a Chinese Hospital Over a 5-Year PeriodA recent study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that of the 36 children who died from H1N1 from April to August (2009), six had no chronic health conditions. But all of them had a co-occurring bacterial infection. The most common co-occurring infection that causes flu-related deaths is staphylococcus aureus. A third of the population carries it, most in their nose or on their skin. The flu causes upper respiratory damage, which allows the staph to make its way into the lungs. Dr. Joseph MercolaOf the 10,624 samples studied, 4,690 (44.1%) were negative for all pathogens detectable with the assay. Among the 7,514 (70.73%) samples negative for pandemic (H1N1) 2009 virus, 3 bacterial pathogens predominated: S.aureus (875; 11.65%), S. pneumoniae (573; 7.63%), and H. inflluenzae (411; 5.47%). The most common viral pathogens in the pandemic (H1N1) 2009negative samples were from the family Picornaviridae: coxsackie/echovirus (650; 8.65%), and rhinovirus (449; 5.98%). Of the 10,624 samples studied, 3,110 (29.3%) were positive for pandemic (H1N1) 2009 virus, representing 52.4% of samples positive for any pathogen. Among pandemic (H1N1) 2009 viruspositive samples, >1 other pathogen was co-detected for 28%. The most commonly co-detected pathogens were S. aureus (458; 14.73%), S. pneumoniae (316; 10.16%), and H. influenzae (110; 3.54%). Centres For Disease Control: Co-detection of Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 Virus and Other Respiratory Pathogens, December 2010Note: The most common viral pathogens in the pandemic (H1N1) 2009negative samples were from the family Picornaviridae: coxsackie/echovirus (due to cross-contamination from the Inactivated Polio Vaccine/IPV), and rhinovirus (due to cross-contamination from the Hepatitis B Vaccine & H1N1/Seasonal strain type Influenzae Vaccine)The most commonly co-detected pathogens were S. aureus (due to cross-contamination from the Pneumococcal Vaccine/PCV), S. pneumoniae (due to cross-contamination from the Pneumococcal Vaccine/PCV & the H1N1/Seasonal strain type Influenzae Vaccine), and H. influenzae (due to cross-contamination from the Haemophilus influenzae type B Vaccine/HIB).Clearly society has reached its saturation point with the widespread over-use of anti-biotics; which has given rise to the emergence of multidrugresistant staphylococci, potentially the greatest of threats to our natural immunity, in terms of its resilience in the environment & virulence in the human host. Spontaneous chromosomal mutations have also played a role in the emergence of clinically important resistanceIts possible methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus aureiis will become untreatable.The Vaccine Resistance Movement has recently uncovered scientific proof implicating the PCV vaccine with Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pneumoniae infection in babies/young children having received the shot:Role of Staphylococcus aureus Catalase in Niche Competition against Streptococcus pneumoniae: Nasal colonization by Staphylococcus aureus is a major predisposing factor for subsequent infection. Recent reports of increased S. aureus colonization among children receiving pneumococcal vaccine implicate Streptococcus pneumoniae as an important competitor for the same niche. Since S. pneumoniae uses H2O2 to kill competing bacteria, we hypothesized that oxidant defense could play a significant role in promoting S. aureus colonization of the nasal mucosa. Using targeted mutagenesis, we showed that S. aureus expression of catalase contributes significantly to the survival of this pathogen in the presence of S. pneumoniae both in vitro and in a murine model of nasal cocolonization.Multiple studies have shown that colonization of the upper airway with S. pneumoniae is negatively correlated with S. aureus colonization, and introduction of the S. pneumoniae vaccine has increased the rate of S. aureus nasal colonization. By eradicating carriage of S. pneumoniae vaccine strains, immunization removes an important niche competitor that utilizes H2O2 to restrict colonization by other bacteria. In this study, we showed that the S. aureus catalase is a major factor in S. aureus defense against S. pneumoniae killing due to neutralization of secreted H2O2. H2O2 is used as an antimicrobial factor by many other microbes, including Streptococcus sanguinis in the oral cavity and lactobacilli in the vagina, two sites frequently cocolonized by S. aureus. Thus, it could be speculated that in S. aureus catalase is an important tool for securing a niche on multiple mucosal surfaces in the human host. The presence of catalase may also explain the preferential survival of WT S. aureus compared to the KatA mutant in the cotton rat model of nasal colonization previously reported by Cosgrove and coworkers.S. aureus encodes a number antioxidants, including, alkyl hydroperoxide reductase, and staphyloxanthin, which may supplement catalase in defense against H2O2-producing organisms, such as S. pneumoniae. Bonggoo Park, Victor Nizet, and George Y. LiuNote: Recent reports of increased S. aureus colonization among children receiving pneumococcal vaccine implicate Streptococcus pneumoniae as an important competitor for the same niche.Bacteria that cause childhood pneumonia and meningitis have evolved to evade vaccines by swapping bits of their genome with other bacteria, according to a new study. Vaccines that protect against these so-called pneumoccoccal infections are designed to recognise a material on the outer surface of a bacteriums cell called polysaccharide. Each of more than 90 kinds, or serotypes, of these bacteria have a different polysaccharide coating.In 2000, a vaccine that targeted seven serotypes proved highly effective when introduced in the United States. The same formula which also prevented transmission from children to adults was adopted in Britain. Over time, however, the vaccine worked less well, so researchers led by Rory Bowden at the University of Oxford set out to discover why. Combining cutting-edge genetic analysis with epidemiology, which examines how disease spreads, they found that the deadly pathogens escaped detection by swapping genes with other, slightly different, bacteria. Remarkably, the exchanged genetic material came from precisely that part of the genome responsible for making the cells coating the area targeted by the vaccine. The bacteria, in other words, had kept their virulence intact but changed their outward appearance.The researchers identified several such recombined serotypes resistant to the vaccine, and one in particular that had spread across the US from east to west over several years. They also observed for the first time outside a laboratory that the bugs could swap several parts of their respective genomes at once. This is of particular concern, as recombination involving multiple fragments of DNA allows rapid and simultaneous exchange of key regions of the genome within the bug, potentially allowing it to quickly develop antibiotic resistance,the researchers said. In both the US and Britain, the original vaccine has been replaced with a new one that targets 13 rather than seven of the telltale serotypes. But the scientists caution that the bacteria will continue to morph into new forms.Note: the bacteria will continue to morph into new forms.This reformulating or morphing nature of the Staphylococcus aureus-type pathogen is indicative of years spent being sliced and re-spliced in top Level Bio-laboratories; while overcoming the bodys natural anti-biotic defenses through prolonged incubation in the host species increasingly compromised generation to generation by the over-use of Prescription anti-biotics and vaccine derived heavy metal/excipient/virus & bacterium sludge toxicity.Staphylococcus aureus is a virulent pathogen that is currently the most common cause of infections in hospitalized patients. S. aureus infection can involve any organ system. The success of S. aureus as a pathogen and its ability to cause such a wide range of infections are the result of its extensive virulence factors. The increase in the resistance of this virulent pathogen to antibacterial agents, coupled with its increasing prevalence as a nosocomial pathogen, is of major concern. The core resistance phenotype that seems to be most associated with the persistence of S. aureus in the hospital is methicillin resistance. Methicillin resistance in nosocomial S. aureus isolates has been increasing dramatically in United States hospitals and is also associated with resistance to other useful antistaphylococcal compounds. Possible ways to decrease the incidence of nosocomial S. aureus infections include instituting more effective infection control, decreasing nasal colonization, developing vaccines, and developing new or improved antimicrobials. Department of Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, RichmondMethicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a Gram-positive bacterium that is resistant to methicillin (a member of the penicillin family) and many other -lactam antimicrobials; -lactam antimicrobials include penicillins and cephalosporins. The description methicillin-resistant was first used in 1961, based on the discovery of a human Staphyloccocus aureus infection in the United Kingdom that was resistant to methicillin.1 Since that time, MRSA has emerged as a significant problem worldwide, and the term has evolved to include resistance to additional -lactam antimicrobials. Currently, the term MRSA is often used to describe multi-drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus. http://www.avma.org/reference/backgrounders/mrsa_bgnd.aspInvasive Pneumococcal Disease after Routine Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccination in Children, England and Wales: Sixty-two children died, including 4 with multiple comorbidities who died several weeks after recovering from IPD; their deaths were attributed to complications of chronic liver disease (2 children), Escherichia coli septicemia (1 child), and group A streptococcal septicemia (1 child). The IPD-attributable case-fatality rate (CFR) was, therefore, 4.4% (58/1,332); almost one third (18/58 [31.0%]) of children who died had comorbidities. Seven (12.1% [1 with comorbidity]) died at home; 8 (13.8% [6 with comorbidities]) died on the way to the hospital; 12 (20.7% [6 with comorbidities]) died in the emergency department; and 31 (53.5% [5 with comorbidities]) died in the intensive care unit. One toddler, in whom Staphylococcus aureus meningitis had developed at 7 months of age, died of pneumococcal meningitis at 13 months of age, and IRAK-4 mutation was subsequently diagnosed at postmortem examination.Of the 51 deaths in children for whom serotype was known, CFR for PCV7-IPD cases was equally distributed among the 7 serotypes, and 10/11 (90.9%) deaths occurred after 4 months of age, of which 9 were in unvaccinated children and, therefore, potentially vaccine-preventable. CFR did not vary with time since PCV7 introduction (Figure) and was lower for IPD caused by the extra 3 PCV10 serotypes (1.7%) but not statistically significant (Table 1) and. CFR for serotype 3 IPD (5/98 cases, 5.1%) was similar to the overall IPD CFR in this age group. After adjustment for age, sex, vaccination status, and time since PCV7 introduction in a logistic regression model, infecting serotype group was not associated with death. On the other hand, meningitis (aOR 6.43, 95% CI 3.3612.3, p<0.001) and presence of comorbidities (aOR 2.70, 95% CI 1.355.38, p = 0.005) were significantly associated with death. Emerging infectious Diseases Shamez N. Ladhani, Mary P.E. Slack, Nick J. Andrews, Pauline A. Waight, Ray Borrow, and Elizabeth Miller 01/2013Note: a higher proportion of children with comorbidities had been previously vaccinated with >1 PCV7 dose (22/44 [50.0%] vs. 69/204 [33.8%])Whenever a child dies, in the days/weeks/months following vaccination, Medical authorities routinely obfuscate the evidence, shifting the blame AWAY from the Vaccine itself, to what is termed comorbidities (pre-existing medical condition or complications inherent to that case-file A concomitant but unrelated pathologic or disease process; usually used in epidemiology to indicate the coexistence of two or more disease processes.). The Vaccine Industry doesnt want you to know that vaccines cause the very signature disease/disorder they claim to protect you against; albeit a more virulent transforming strain of the primary pathogen.The routine administering of post Influenza vaccination Prescription Drugs (Vancomycin & Oseltamivir aka Tamiflu) led to serious adverse interactions which not only hastened the critical conditions of those who sought hospital care, but may, in fact, have triggered the premature deaths of most, if not all children who succumbed to 2009s laboratory produced novel strain of H1N1 (2 parts Swine Flu, 1 part Human Flu, 1 part Avian Flu).The truth is the body is being systematically targeted & broken down from all sides, creating a perfect storm of toxicity which has derailed the inherent functionality of our natural immunity generation to generation; thereby opening the door to widespread ill health. Western medicine, however they spin its so called progress, continually offers the antithesis of a natural solution.It is no longer a coincidence to suggest a correlation between natural vs. manufactured (prescription) anti-biotic/anti-viral breakdown in the body and natural vs manufactured (prescription) anti-biotic/anti-viral resistance overload proliferating in the environment. Approximately 2 out of every 100 people carry a strain of staph that is resistant to these antibiotics. We have reached the saturation point as a species; with the continued oversight of Western Allopathic Medicine, focusing solely on treating (and thereby exacerbating) symptoms rather than seeking out & remedying (embracing) the underlying cause.Children with preexisting neurologic conditions and immune compromise were at increased risk of pH1N1-associated death after PICU admission. Secondary complications of pH1N1, including myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle), encephalitis (inflammation of the brain & meninges), and clinical diagnosis of early presumed MRSA (Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus) coinfection of the lung, were mortality risk factors. Published in American Academy of Pediatrics, 09/31/11 http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2011/11/04/peds.2011-0774.abstract?sid=2f7367a0-a5d8-4ae8-b2f1-b9e16e543085Theres more risk for MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) to become invasive in the presence of flu or other viruses. These deaths in co-infected children are a warning sign. This is especially alarming given the rising rates of MRSA infections being carried widely among children. It is not common in the U.S. to lose a previously healthy child to pneumonia. Unfortunately, these children had necrotizing pneumonia eating away at their tissue and killing off whole areas of the lung. They looked like immunocompromised patients in the way MRSA went through their body. Its not that flu alone cant kill it can but in most cases children with flu alone survivedThe more antibiotics we take, the more we colonize ourselves with antibiotic-resistant organisms such as MRSA. Adrienne G. Randolph, MD, Division of Critical Care Medicine at Childrens Hospital BostonDuring the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, many previously healthy children became critically ill, developing severe pneumonia and respiratory failure, sometimes fatal. The largest nationwide investigation to date of influenza in critically ill children, led by Childrens Hospital Boston, found one key risk factor: Simultaneous infection with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) increased the risk for flu-related mortality 8-fold among previously healthy children. Moreover, almost all of these co-infected children were rapidly treated with vancomycin, considered to be appropriate treatment for MRSA. The fact that they died despite this treatment is especially alarming given the rising rates of MRSA carriage among children in the community.While most of the children critically ill with H1N1 had one or more chronic health conditions that increased their risk, such as asthma, neurologic disorders or compromised immune systems, 251 children (30 percent) were previously healthy. Among these otherwise healthy children, the only risk factor that was identified for death from influenza was a presumed diagnosis of MRSA co-infection in the lung which increased the risk for mortality 8-fold (P<0.0001). 88 percent of the children admitted to the ICU received Tamiflu (oseltamivir) during their stay, but only 6 percent had received it prior to hospital admissionThe study also found that most of the MRSA co-infected children who died had received vancomycin promptly at or before ICU admission. Childrens Hospital, BostonNote: 88 percent of the children admitted to the ICU received Tamiflu (oseltamivir) during their stayThe manufacturing process for oseltamivir (Tamiflu)includes other complicating factors, such as the potentially dangerous use of sodium azide, a highly reactive chemical (also used to make automobile air bags inflate). Many companies, including Roche, contract out that step in the production process. William H. Frist, M.D., Senate Majority Leader/United States SenateTamiflu under examination: Side Effects: Allergic reactions sometimes leading to shock, Asthma, Bronchitis, Chest infection, Conjunctivitis, Dermatitis, Diarrhoea, Difficulty sleeping, Dizziness, Ear infection, Ear problems, Erythema multiforme, Headache, Hepatitis, Indigestion, Liver problems, Lymphadenopathy, Nausea, Nose bleed, Rash or rashes, Runny nose, Sinusitis, Stevens Johnson syndrome, Urticaria, Vomiting.A teenage girl left disabled by the swine flu treatment Tamiflu did not even have the virus, it was revealed today. Samantha Millard, 19, became critically ill after suffering a severe allergic reaction to the tablets, which she took on the advice of the controversial NHS helpline. Within 72 hours of taking three pills, doctors put her on life support.The detection of an increased number of A(H1N1) viruses with resistance to oseltamivir (Tamiflu) was initially reported to WHO by Norway on 25 January 2008. The viruses carried a specific neuraminidase (NA) mutation (H274Y) that confers high-level resistance to oseltamivir in N1-containing influenza viruses1 . Prior to the recent report from Norway, such resistance was rarely observed in community isolates of influenza A or B. During the previous northern hemisphere winter season (2006/2007), surveillance through the Global Influenza Surveillance Network (GISN) laboratories found no oseltamivir-resistant H1N1 viruses among isolates from Japan or Europe, and less than 1% prevalence among H1N1 isolates from the United States of America.The mutation in N1 neuraminidase of human influenza virus which confers high-level resistant to oseltamivir is a single amino acid substitution of the relevant histidine (H) to tyrosine (Y) at position 275. Most of the early work on structure and inhibitor design is based on two other subtypes (N2 and N9) and the corresponding amino acid in these subtypes is at position 274. Consequently, some scientists use N2 numbering (H274Y) and some use the actual N1 numbering (H275Y). WHO http://www.who.int/influenza/patient_care/antivirals/oseltamivir_summary/en/Vancomycin under examination: Treatment failures of vancomycin in patients with MRSA infections have been reported despite in vitro susceptibility. These failures have led to the utilization of vancomycin doses higher than those approved by the FDA. Higher doses are being administered to achieve goal vancomycin trough concentrations of 10-20 g/mL recommended by several Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) endorsed clinical practice guidelines. Recent studies suggest that increased rates of nephrotoxicity are associated with aggressive vancomycin dosing. These increased rates are confounded by concomitant nephrotoxins, renal insufficiency, and/or changing hemodynamics.Note: Three published studies have suggested that there is a significant association between increased vancomycin through concentrations and nephrotoxicity (the quality of being destructive to kidney cells). http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2813201/In 3 studies controlling for disease severity in multivariate analyses, vancomycin resistance was not found to be an independent predictor of mortality [1719]. In another study, when disease severity was not controlled for in the multivariate analysis, vancomycin resistance was an independent predictor of enterococci-associated mortality [5]. In a matched casecohort study [7] that used an alternative approach, 37% mortality was attributed to bacteremia due to vancomycin-resistant enterococci (Hardy, facultative anaerobic organisms that can survive and grow in many environmentsEnterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium are the most prevalent species cultured from humans accounting for more than 90% of clinical isolates.). http://cid.oxfordjournals.org/content/30/3/466.full.pdfOf the 768 patients colonized with VRE (vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus), 31 (4.0%) usually developed VRE BSI due to a related strain. Independent risk factors for BSI among colonized patients were admission from a long-term care facility, infection of an additional body site, and exposure to vancomycin. Independent risk factors for death were immunosuppression and VRE BSI. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18419361Relationship between Vancomycin MIC and Failure among Patients with Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus Bacteremia Treated with Vancomycin: The 66 patients with vancomycin MICs of 1.5 mg/liter had a 2.4-fold increase in failure compared to patients with MICs (Minimal Inhibitory Concentration the lowest concentration that is able to inhibit growth of the bacteria) of 1.0 mg/liter (36.4% and 15.4%, respectively; P = 0.049). In the Poisson regression, a vancomycin MIC of 1.5 mg/liter was independently associated with failure (adjusted risk ratio, 2.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 5.4; P = 0.01). These data strongly suggest that patients with MRSA bloodstream infections with vancomycin MICs of 1.5 mg/liter respond poorly to vancomycin. Alternative anti-MRSA therapies should be considered for these patients. http://aac.asm.org/content/52/9/3315.abstractBody of evidence compiled by VRM on adverse health effects of Tamiflu & Vancomycin includes the following data Note: almost all of these co-infected children were rapidly treated with vancomycin, considered to be appropriate treatment for MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus).Note: 88 percent of the children admitted to the ICU received Tamiflu (oseltamivir) during their stayNote: As of February 19, 2009, resistance to oseltamivir (Tamiflu) had been identified among 264 of 268 (98.5 percent) U.S. influenza A(H1N1) viruses tested.Note: ..became critically ill after suffering a severe allergic reaction to the tablets (Tamiflu)Within 72 hours of taking three pills, doctors put her on life support.Note: detection of an increased number of A(H1N1) viruses with resistance to oseltamivir (Tamiflu)high-level resistance to oseltamivir in N1-containing influenza virusesNote: Three published studies have suggested that there is a significant association between increased vancomycin through concentrations and nephrotoxicity (the quality of being destructive to kidney cells).Note: Independent risk factors for BSI (blood stream infection) among colonized patients were admission from a long-term care facility, infection of an additional body site, and exposure to vancomycin. Independent risk factors for death were immunosuppression and VRE BSI.Note: The 66 patients with vancomycin MICs of 1.5 mg/liter had a 2.4-fold increase in failure compared to patients with MICs (Minimal Inhibitory Concentration the lowest concentration that is able to inhibit growth of the bacteria) of 1.0 mg/litera vancomycin MIC of 1.5 mg/liter was independently associated with failure.Note: 37% mortality was attributed to bacteremia due to vancomycin-resistant enterococci.Resistant Superbugs Create Need for Novel Antibiotics: New Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine: There are now two types of pneumococcal vaccine: pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PneumovaxAE, Pnu-ImmuneAE) and pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PrevnarAE). Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine has been available since 1977 and has been recommended approximately every 5-10 years for older adults and certain at-risk populations. However, this vaccine has not been effective in children under 2 years of age. In February 2000, the FDA approved another form of this vaccine, the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PrevnarAE).In the past, the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine was formulated based on certain epidemic serotypes of S. pneumoniae. With the emergence of resistant strains of the organism, a change in the vaccine has been necessary. The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine has been developed which can impart immunity against drug resistant strains of S. pneumoniae. Ex panded use of the newly formulated conjugate pneumococcal vaccine can provide protection against approximately 80% of resistant pneumococcal strains. This form of the vaccine is recommended for children under 2 years of age and other at-risk patient populations. Individuals with risk factors for pneumococcal infection can receive both forms of the vaccine (CDC, 2003).Superbug resistance is escalating within the clinical setting and community at large. In novative antibiotic strategies are still lacking within the pharmaceutical industry to keep pace with the growing resistance, with a glaring absence of any novel class of antibacterial drug in the United States for decades. Most new antibiotics are chemical modifications of existing drugs and are quickly outsmarted by the bacteria in the environment. Clinicians are challenged by some strains of bacteria which are resistant to essentially all available antimicrobial agents. New antibiotics must be used with precision after the infectious organism is identified by culture and sensitivity testing. Using the exact antibiotic which specifically targets the identified organism is a key strategy to limit bacterial resistance. http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/554935_6Epidemiology and risk factors for Staphylococcus aureus colonization in children in the post-PCV7 era: In Massachusetts, S. aureus and MRSA colonization remained stable from 2003-04 to 2006-07 among children <7 years despite widespread use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. S. aureus nasal colonization varies by age and is inversely correlated with recent antibiotic use. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19594890Impact of infant pneumococcal vaccination on invasive pneumococcal diseases in France, 2001-2006: while the incidence of pneumococcal meningitis and bacteraemia due to non-vaccine strains increased from 9.4 to 17.5 cases per 100,000 in this time period. The incidence in older children and adults did not decrease. Further expansion of PCV coverage is expected to increase the impact of the vaccination in both children and adults. However, the fact that cases caused by vaccine serotypes have been partially substituted by cases of non-vaccine serotypes is likely to reduce the overall benefit of PCV in France, should this early observation be confirmed in the future.If, on the other hand, the partial substitution of the cases that are caused by vaccine serotypes with cases caused by non-vaccine serotypes, that was observed in our early analysis in young children, is confirmed in the coming years, this would lead to a reduction of the positive impact of PCV vaccination in France. http://www.eurosurveillance.org/ViewArticle.aspx?ArticleId=18962While highly influential organizations such as the American Academy of Pediatrics have gone to great lengths to promote sales of the PCV Vaccine product: Invasive pneumococcal disease rates have declined since immunization with 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV7) (Prevenar/Prevnar [Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, PA]) became routinePCV13 was well tolerated and immunogenic, with most infants developing antipolysaccharide antibody concentrations of 0.35 g/mL, as well as OPA responses, to each of the 13 serotypes.an increasingly negative track-record for both Prevnar7 & Prevnar13 throughout our communities has been fervently suppressed in the all-important mainstream Medical circles where doctors acquire their Industry information. Fortunately they cannot suppress the truth from getting out.I had a baby that was perfectly healthy, happy, okay until she got a shot, until she got her vaccine. Thirty, forty hours later, shes in the hospital having seizures that they cant stop. Youre not going to tell me its not related to the vaccine somehow. Its hard, its very hard. Im not angry, Im mad. I guess Im a little bitter about losing a child. Im not a little Im a lot bitter. Quote from Ray Graves, father of baby Hayley who slipped in and out of a coma for 45 days after receiving Prevnar7 (Pneumococcal 7-valent Conjugate Vaccine/Diphtheria CRM197 Protein: Prevnar), until she died in September, 2001. Tremors shook her little body almost the entire time.According to Dr. Erdem Cantekin, a medical researcher, one of the leading US experts on earaches, not only are federal regulators issuing bad information, they are also not revealing some of Prevnars dangerous side effects. Cantekin