Any vaccine can cause side effects. For the most part these are minor (for example, a sore arm or low-grade fever) and go away within a few days. Listed below are vaccines licensed in the United States and side effects that have been associated with each of them. This information is copied directly from CDC's Vaccine Information Statements, which in turn are derived from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommendations for each vaccine.Remember, vaccines are continually monitored for safety, and like any medication, vaccines can cause side effects. However, a decision not to immunize a child also involves risk and could put the child and others who come into contact with him or her at risk of contracting a potentially deadly disease.A vaccine, like any medicine, could cause a serious reaction. But the risk of a vaccine causing serious harm, or death, is extremely small. Several mild problems have been reported within 2 weeks of getting the vaccine: More serious problems have been reported by about 1 person in 100, within 6 months of vaccination. These problems included: blood in the urine or stool inflammation of the stomach or intestines It is not clear whether these mild or serious problems were caused by the vaccine or occurred after vaccination by chance. As with all vaccines, adenovirus vaccine will continue to be monitored for unexpected or severe problems.Note: Adenovirus vaccine is approved for use only among military personnel.This information is based on the Adenovirus VIS.This information is based on the Anthrax VIS.Getting diphtheria, tetanus, or pertussis disease is much riskier than getting DTaP vaccine. However, a vaccine, like any medicine, is capable of causing serious problems, such as severe allergic reactions. The risk of DTaP vaccine causing serious harm, or death, is extremely small. Fever (up to about 1 child in 4) Redness or swelling where the shot was given (up to about 1 child in 4) Soreness or tenderness where the shot was given (up to about 1 child in 4) These problems occur more often after the 4th and 5th doses of the DTaP series than after earlier doses. Sometimes the 4th or 5th dose of DTaP vaccine is followed by swelling of the entire arm or leg in which the shot was given, lasting 1-7 days (up to about 1 child in 30). Fussiness (up to about 1 child in 3) Tiredness or poor appetite (up to about 1 child in 10) Vomiting (up to about 1 child in 50) These problems generally occur 1-3 days after the shot. Seizure (jerking or staring) (about 1 child out of 14,000) Non-stop crying, for 3 hours or more (up to about 1 child out of 1,000) High fever, over 105F (about 1 child out of 16,000) Serious allergic reaction (less than 1 out of a million doses) Several other severe problems have been reported after DTaP vaccine. These include: These are so rare it is hard to tell if they are caused by the vaccine. Controlling fever is especially important for children who have had seizures, for any reason. It is also important if another family member has had seizures. You can reduce fever and pain by giving your child an aspirin-free pain reliever when the shot is given, and for the next 24 hours, following the package instructions.This information is based on the DTaP VIS.This information is based on the Hepatitis A VIS.This information is based on the Hepatitis B VIS.With any medicine, including vaccines, there is a chance of side effects. These are usually mild and go away on their own. Serious reactions are also possible but are rare. Most people who get Hib vaccine do not have any problems with it. redness, warmth, or swelling where the shot was given These problems are uncommon. If they occur, they usually begin soon after the shot and last 2 or 3 days. Problems that could happen after any vaccine: Any medication can cause a severe allergic reaction. Such reactions from a vaccine are very rare, estimated at fewer than 1 in a million doses, and would happen within a few minutes to a few hours after the vaccination. As with any medicine, there is a very remote chance of a vaccine causing a serious injury or death. Older children, adolescents, and adults might also experience these problems after any vaccine: People sometimes faint after a medical procedure, including vaccination. Sitting or lying down for about 15 minutes can help prevent fainting, and injuries caused by a fall. Tell your doctor if you feel dizzy, or have vision changes or ringing in the ears. Some people get severe pain in the shoulder and have difficulty moving the arm where a shot was given. This happens very rarely. The safety of vaccines is always being monitored. For more information, visit the vaccine safety site.This information is based on the Hib VIS.This information is based on the HPV-Gardasil-9 VIS.This information is based on the HPV-Gardasil VIS.This information is based on the Inactivated Influenza VIS.This information is based on the LAIV VIS.This information is based on the JE-Ixiaro VIS.This information is based on the MMR VIS.This information is based on the MMRV VIS.This information is based on the Pneumococcal Conjugate (PCV13) VIS.This information is based on the Pneumococcal Polysaccharide VIS.This information is based on the IPV VIS.This information is based on the Rabies VIS.This information is based on the Rotavirus VIS.This information is based on the Shingles VIS.This medication guide replaces the Smallpox VIS. It is to be used before one receives the vaccination. Medical Guide for vaccination with ACAM2000 [6 pages] (10/1/09)With any medicine, including vaccines, there is a chance of side effects. These are usually mild and go away on their own. Serious reactions are also possible but are rare. Most people who get Td vaccine do not have any problems with it. Mild Problems following Td vaccine: (Did not interfere with activities) Pain where the shot was given (about 8 people in 10) Redness or swelling where the shot was given (about 1 person in 4) Moderate Problems following Td vaccine: (Interfered with activities, but did not require medical attention) Swelling, severe pain, bleeding and/or redness in the arm where the shot was given (rare). Problems that could happen after any vaccine: People sometimes faint after a medical procedure, including vaccination. Sitting or lying down for about 15 minutes can help prevent fainting, and injuries caused by a fall. Tell your doctor if you feel dizzy, or have vision changes or ringing in the ears. Some people get severe pain in the shoulder and have difficulty moving the arm where a shot was given. This happens very rarely. Any medication can cause a severe allergic reaction. Such reactions from a vaccine are very rare, estimated at fewer than 1 in a million doses, and would happen within a few minutes to a few hours after the vaccination. As with any medicine, there is a very remote chance of a vaccine causing a serious injury or death. The safety of vaccines is always being monitored. For more information, visit the Vaccine Safety site.This information is based on the Td VIS.With any medicine, including vaccines, there is a chance of side effects. These are usually mild and go away on their own. Serious reactions are also possible but are rare. Most people who get Tdap vaccine do not have any problems with it. Mild problems following Tdap: (Did not interfere with activities) Pain where the shot was given (about 3 in 4 adolescents or 2 in 3 adults) Redness or swelling where the shot was given (about 1 person in 5) Mild fever of at least 100.4F (up to about 1 in 25 adolescents or 1 in 100 adults) Headache (about 3 or 4 people in 10) Tiredness (about 1 person in 3 or 4) Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach ache (up to 1 in 4 adolescents or 1 in 10 adults) Body aches (about 1 person in 3 or 4) Moderate problems following Tdap: (Interfered with activities, but did not require medical attention) Pain where the shot was given (up to 1 in 5 or 6) Redness or swelling where the shot was given (up to about 1 in 16 adolescents or 1 in 12 adults) Fever over 102F (about 1 in 100 adolescents or 1 in 250 adults) Headache (about 1 in 7 adolescents or 1 in 10 adults) Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach ache (up to 1 or 3 people in 100) Swelling of the entire arm where the shot was given (up to about 1 in 500). Swelling, severe pain, bleeding, and redness in the arm where the shot was given (rare). Problems that could happen after any vaccine: People sometimes faint after a medical procedure, including vaccination. Sitting or lying down for about 15 minutes can help prevent fainting, and injuries caused by a fall. Tell your doctor if you feel dizzy, or have vision changes or ringing in the ears. Some people get severe pain in the shoulder and have difficulty moving the arm where a shot was given. This happens very rarely. Any medication can cause a severe allergic reaction. Such reactions from a vaccine are very rare, estimated at fewer than 1 in a million doses, and would happen within a few minutes to a few hours after the vaccination. As with any medicine, there is a very remote chance of a vaccine causing a serious injury or death. The safety of vaccines is always being monitored. For more information, visit the Vaccine Safety site.This information is based on the Tdap VIS.This information is based on the Typhoid VIS.This information is based on the Varicella VIS.This information is based on the Yellow Fever VIS.