Thats the vaccine makers main argument. But it is false.Libertarian presidential candidate Gary Johnson recentlyreversed his oppositionon mandatory childhood vaccination. When asked what caused him to make a U-turn and adopt what would seem to be an anti-libertarian position, he said,Ive come to find out that without mandatory vaccines, the vaccines that would in fact be issued would not be effective.Its dependent [on having]mandatory vaccines so that every child is immune. Otherwise, not all children will be immune even though they receive a vaccine.This line of argument is one of the main pillars behind forcing parents not only to vaccinate their kids but to do so on the governments schedule, which includes more and more vaccines given on the same day, plusa vaccination at birthaimed to prevent a sexually transmitted illness. But is the herd immunity argument true?No.The herd immunity hypothesis states that a very high percentage of a community must be vaccinated in order to protect everyone (the herd) from a disease. This is supposed to work because there are not enough vulnerable individuals to allow the disease to spread. Those few who are unable to receive vaccines on medical grounds are then supposed to be protected by the inability of the infectious agent to spread.This line of argument further states that a decision not to vaccinate is selfish because it threatens the health of those too vulnerable to be vaccinated against a disease. Johnson doubles down on this by suggesting that even immunized kids will not be protected if too many of the germs are circulating. This sounds completely illogical, but it has been proven thatmany vaccines do not work reliably. They are not in fact protecting kids who have been vaccinated.The herd immunity idea simply isnt supported by the facts. The argument was developed out of observations of natural immunity, not vaccination. Statisticians observed that populations were protected when sufficient members contracted the wild form of a disease, and subsequently acquired lifelong immunity.With vaccines, however, theevidence plainly showsthat unvaccinated children may catch infectious diseases from vaccinated children. The result is that vaccination, not failure to vaccinate, is spreading the disease. Moreover the children who do fall illnaturallythen have strong immunity, while vaccinated children do not.Of course, the medical establishment has a rejoinder to Dr. Blaylocks point: just mandate repeated child and adult revaccination. Dont be surprised if we start to hear the government talking about that, because it would produce enormous profits for Big Pharma.The vaccine herd immunity theory is further undermined by the fact that not only infection but even epidemics can occur in vaccinated populations. In 1989, theCDC reportedmeasles outbreaks occurring in schools with vaccination levels above 98%. The same has been true for whooping cough, a vaccine which has been improved but still may not work.The herd immunity argument is also inconsistent. On the one hand, the theory goes, people who cannot receive vaccines for whatever reason are protected from the disease through a high level of vaccination within the rest of society. On the other hand, parents who dont vaccinate their children put the health of the wider community at risk. How can a handful of people not getting vaccinated be protected from getting sick, while at the same time being so disease-ridden that they make others sick? This is not logical. Yet supposed health authorities on the subject, mindless media commentators, schools doing the governments bidding, and parent-teacher associations waste no opportunity to bash parents over the head with this message.We know that drug companies are today failing to produce profitable new drugs and are looking to vaccines to restore their profits. Big Pharmas future without government mandates is beginning to look doubtful, as the wisdom of taking so many legal but risky drugs on top of vaccines is being questioned. We know that many of the ingredients in vaccines (mercury, aluminum, formaldehyde, etc.)are not safe. We do not yet have any studies showing that taking so many legal, FDA-approved drugs together is safe.Drug companies provide huge political funding, are a major power on Capitol Hill and in state legislatures, and provide a lifeline of advertising dollars that in many instances is keeping old media alive. Given the potential for corruption here, we need to be sure that arguments over vaccines are indeed science-based, not just crony capitalism operating under a mask of pseudo-science.What we need here is honest science. We know that the safety record of vaccines differs tremendously. Some seem relatively safe. Some, such as the Gardasil vaccine for genital warts, have a record ofhorrific adverse events including death. Vaccine ingredients also differ tremendously: some include the very toxic substances such as aluminum and mercury we mentioned above; others dont. The ever-expanding vaccine schedule at younger and younger agesand insisting that the child receive so many vaccines the same dayviolates common sense and has never received adequate study.Vaccines are supposed to protect children, not harm them so that giant companies can make huge profits. The herd immunity theory does not hold up. But even if it did, much more research is needed to be sure that we are not recklessly harming the next generation.Canadian physician Dr. Andrew Moulden provided clear scientific evidence to prove that every dose of vaccine given to a child or an adult produces harm. The truth that he uncovered was rejected by the conventional medical system and the pharmaceutical industry. Nevertheless, his warning and his message to America remains as a solid legacy of the man who stood up against big pharma and their program to vaccinate every person on the Earth.Dr. Moulden died unexpectedly in November of 2013 at age 49.Because of the strong opposition from big pharma concerning Dr. Mouldens research, we became concerned that the name of this brilliant researcher and his lifes work had nearly been deleted from the internet. His reputation was being disparaged, and his message of warning and hope was being distorted and buried without a tombstone. This book summarizes his teaching and is a must-read for everyone who wants to learn the other-side of the vaccine debate that the mainstream media routinely censors.One of the biggest myths being propagated in the compliant mainstream media today is that doctors are either pro-vaccine or anti-vaccine, and that the anti-vaccine doctors are all quacks.However, nothing could be further from the truth in the vaccine debate. Doctors are not unified at all on their positions regarding the science of vaccines, nor are they unified in the position of removing informed consent to a medical procedure like vaccines.The two most extreme positions are those doctors who are 100% against vaccines and do not administer them at all, and those doctors that believe that ALL vaccines are safe and effective for ALL people, ALL the time, by force if necessary.Very few doctors fall into either of these two extremist positions, and yet it is the extreme pro-vaccine position that is presented by the U.S. Government and mainstream media as being the dominant position of the medical field.In between these two extreme views, however, is where the vast majority of doctors practicing today would probably categorize their position. Many doctors who consider themselves pro-vaccine, for example, do not believe that every single vaccine is appropriate for every single individual.Many doctors recommend a delayed vaccine schedule for some patients, and not always the recommended one-size-fits-all CDC childhood schedule. Other doctors choose to recommend vaccines based on the actual science and merit of each vaccine, recommending some, while determining that others are not worth the risk for children, such as the suspect seasonal flu shot.These doctors who do not hold extreme positions would be opposed to government-mandated vaccinations and the removal of all parental exemptions.In this eBook, I am going to summarize the many doctors today who do not take the most extremist pro-vaccine position, which is probably not held by very many doctors at all, in spite of what the pharmaceutical industry, the federal government, and the mainstream media would like the public to believe.