The flu season starts around October and peaks around February. At this time all of the pharmacies are starting to push flu shots on consumers without fully explaining the risks that come with their toxic ingredients.One such consumer re-wrote and posted on Facebook the following conversation between her and the pharmacist at Ride-Aid in a post thats going viral on social media:Consumer: May I please have the package insert for the flu vaccine? Rite-Aid Pharmacist: Why? C: So I can read it. P: Which one? C: The one advertised with the little banners on every aisle. P: I will print you the information sheet. C: No, thats not the same thing. P: What do you want to know? I can tell you. C: I would just like to read the whole thing before I consider getting oneside effects, contraindications, effectiveness, ingredients like mercury. P: I dont think I have any. Let me check. [checks] Sorry, I cant give you one until the box is empty, because it has to stay in the box. And there isnt any thimerisol in the single dose flu shot any more. I can print you the information sheet. Pharmacy co-worker with big smile at me: Hi, I found one. (hands insert to P, hands to me).This type of conversation is becoming increasingly common as pharmacists adjust to the demands of curious customers. Unfortunately, many people are not lucky enough to find someone who will hand them an actual insert.The hand out that most people receive, believe it or not, does not include the most vital vaccine safety information when it comes to risks.For example, this is the information sheet people receive about Fluzone High-Dose (a flu shot that shows 105 controversial senior citizens deaths right after the clinical trials of the vaccine among other adverse effects): view the information sheethere.And this is the insert that shows all the adverse effects that happened during and after clinical studies; severe reactions reported after the vaccine arrived on the market, and other risks: view the inserthere.The patient sheet is onlyone single-column normal-font page long and the worst side effect it mentions is headache. On the other hand, the insert is four double-column small-font pages, and the side effects include a few dozen that are severe or life-threatening, including the potential of causing death.The shocking information found in the actual insert that doctors (and on a rare occasion, patients) receive exists for every vaccination available.Besides the side effects, from the insert we learn about the actual vaccine ingredients. They vary by manufacturer, and some are more toxic than the other, but all have at least one controversial and unhealthy ingredient.What Exactly is in Flu Vaccines?ProCon.org, a source that analyzes the pros and cons of controversial issues, has listed all the vaccination ingredients by type and manufacturer.Fluzone vaccines insert lists many severe reactions to the shot.Formaldehyde: A chemical usually used in building materials, as well as industrial fungicide. In medical laboratories, it is used as a preservative. Long-term effects have not been fully studied, as the National Cancer Institute admits. A study of funeral industry workers found a link between formaldehyde and myeloid lukemia, and professionals such as anatomists and embalmers reported increased risks of leukemia and brain cancer when working with formaldehyde.Octylphenol ethoxylate (Triton X-100): is a product created by a few chemical companies including DOW. It is used for wetting, detergency, superior hard surface, metal cleaning and excellent emulsification in paints, coatings, oilfield chemicals, textiles, and industrial cleaners. In 1995 an article raised a question if this chemical is toxic to the reproductive system. In the fact sheet for Triton, the chemical is listed as possibly toxic to specifically the female reproductive system, and mutagenic for mammalian somatic cells (may change DNA of skin, bones, blood and connective tissue cells.Thimerosal (standard dosage multi-dose vial): is a mercury-based preservative used in flu shots and some childhood vaccines. The ingredient has caused a lot of controversy since 1990s. It is a neurotoxin; it can cause nerve damage, and FDA knows of numerous cases of mercury poisoning caused by thimerosal.Other ingredients in Fluzone are: sodium phosphate-buffered isotonic sodium chloride solution and gelatinVaccines contain many toxic ingredients, but they vary by manufacturer.Other flu shots are made from different potentially toxic ingredients:Monobasic sodium phosphate (MSP): when used in high doses during colon cleansing, it has caused acute phosphate nephropathy, and permanent impairment of renal functions. It has also causedseizures, and cardiac arrhythmias.Dibasic sodium phosphate and monobasic potassium phosphate: Phosphates are often used in food as preservatives, acidifying, and emulsifying agents. German researchers concluded that it is damaging to health, especially to the renal function, and is linked to cardiovascular and overall mortality.Potassium chloride: has been most commonly linked to digestive problems and vomiting, but in severe cases it can lead to severe allergic reactions, chest pains, irregular heartbeat, confusion, and paralysis.Sodium taurodeoxycholate: have been associated to promote tumor growth, particularly in pancreas, colon, and throat, studies show.Neomycin sulfate: in rare cases has been linked to drowsiness, loss of hearing, difficulty breathing, rash, and weakness.Polymyxin B: is an antibiotic, whose side effects include neurotoxic and nephrotoxic reactions: rising blood levels, dizziness, apnea, fever, and headache.Mercury: a heavy metal responsible for poisoning, and damage to many organs leading to severe illnesses, including severe insomnia, and neurological disorders.Beta-propiolactone is a carcinogen and a possible toxin to liver, skin, respiratory tract, and gastrointestinal tract.While the amounts of these chemicals may be small, there have been very few studies done on any variation of combining these chemicals together, and their interaction with thousands of chemicals in our environment and food we encounter every day, as well as the cumulative effect.Its worth mentioning that over $3 billion has been paid out to vaccine courts by the government since 1986, when a law was passed that exempted vaccine makers from being sued. Many, many people,especially kids have been paralyzed, and havehad seizures after receiving a flu shot, and yet the pharmaceutical industry continues patenting new vaccines with even more toxins.Taking all that into consideration, the most important thing to know is the importance of doing your own research to make an educated decision with the help of your doctor and, hopefully, the full vaccine insert rather than a watered down information sheet.For the full list of vaccines and their ingredients please visit this site.