Shots (also called vaccines or immunizations) help protect children from seriousdiseases. Vaccines can save your child's life. Getting all the shots recommended by age 2 will help protect your child from diseases that can be dangerous or even deadly, including: Its important for your child to get all the shots.Each vaccine protects your child from different diseases. And each vaccine usually requires more than one dose (shot).For the best protection, your child needs every dose of each vaccine. If your child misses a shot, she may not be protected. It's important for every child to get shots.The bacteria and viruses (germs) that cause serious childhood diseases are still around. Each child who isn't vaccinated can spread those germs to other children.When does my child need shots?Shots work best when children get them at certain ages. Doctors follow a schedule of shots that begins at birth. If your child is age 6 or younger, find out which shots your child still needs. If your child has missed getting some shots, talk to the doctor about catch-up shots. Doctors recommend that pre-teens ages 11 and 12 get important shots, too. Find out more about shots for pre-teens. Ask the doctor for a list of the shots your child has received. Keep the list in a safe place you will need it for school and other activities. Kids who don't get all their shots may not be allowed to attend certain schools.Are there any side effects from shots?Side effects from shots are usually mild and only last a short time. The most common side effect is pain or redness where the shot was given. Some children have no side effects at all. Ask the doctor what to expect after your childs shots. Shots are very safe.Vaccines are tested for years before doctors start giving them to people. And the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) checks vaccines every year to make sure they are safe. The chance that a vaccine will cause a serious problem is very small. Shots dont cause autism.Research shows that shots dont cause autism. Autism is a disorder of the brain. Kids with autism have trouble talking and connecting with other people. Some parents of children with autism notice the first signs of autism at the same age their children get certain shots. They may think these things are connected, but research shows there's no link between vaccines and autism. To learn more, read theseanswers to common questions about children and vaccines.