Vaccinations?? Yes or no.I know that this is a very controversial subject, so I ask that no one responds harshly, or with judgment to one side or the other. I was just curious your opinions on the matter: Have/will you vaccinated your baby? Why or why not? Sources and explanations to your opinions would be greatly appreciated!I beleive vaccinations are not very effective. This seems backed up that many of the recent outbreaks in whooping cough, measles, chicken pox are occuring in vaccinated populations. Vaccinations are also contraindicated in kids with gut or other immune issues / if they are sick - as vaccines artificially trigger the immune sy. As to websites: check out VAERS. Read inserts from the vaccinations they list possible side effects, which can include neurological, SIDS, Guillian Barre syndrome, amoung others. CDC also provides copies of the inserts. The problem is that vaccinations are often tested individually, but they are dosed together with up to 8 vaccines at one time for small infants. It is not true that Thiomerisol is removed from all vaccines. It is still included in some, including many flu vaccines. Aluminium, polysorbate 80, among others are acknowledged concern. Just do your own research, however you can, and make a decision that you personally can justify and live withI don't vaccinate my baby ever since I found out the dark side of vaccines, that most people are so unaware of, but it's up to you. If I were you I wouldn't. All vaccines are immune suppressing this means they depress your natural immune function, leaving you vulnerable to any number of diseases. Some vaccine ingredients even contain mercury and other toxins, even animal and other human cells. There has even been studies that unvaccinated children are way more healthier than vaccinated children. One of a bunch of good articles to read on web is called "Straight Talk About Vaccinations". Also, "Vaccine Adverse Reactions - The Real Truth".no. until they do the tests that need to be done. I just must say no. and I am not lying here..this is the truth. look it up..There has never been a study of the cumulative effect that the vaccine schedule has on a developing child. They have never given a large group of children, starting at birth, the vaccination schedule, as it is administered, and studied what happened. they also refuse to do a vaccinated vs unvaccinated study and that is just insane. that is not science. Since I know the risks of the diseases that we vaccinate against, and since the vaccination schedule as not been tested..the risks of vaccinating is truly unknown..so I will go with the risks that I know of. No matter how I look at it, I cant let my child be a guinea pig.The damage is cumulative from all of the toxins in our environment, so why inject more. To be perfectly harsh, I actually would prefer my children to risk dying from a disease (even if it is vaccine preventable) than to have the risk of them being severly autistic and dependent on me for life (and then what happens when I'm not around). Some people are less able to detox from heavy metals than others. My family all have gut issues (indicating immune disfunction), so there is no way I will vaccinate. I believe the risk for us outweighs the benefits. I personally believe that vaccines should be used judiciously and sparingly. Adults now get shingles because children are vaccinted against chicken pox. It is the constant reexposure to chickenpox in children that was previously common in the population that kept shingles rates low. now that older adults are no in contact with children and cases of chickenpox that they get shingles. This is science and proven.Would you be able to live with yourself if your child dies after getting a round of shots? You do know that "death" is listed as a side effect and is a lot more common that people think? Judging by what you wrote it seems like you know very little about diseases and vaccines. Just because you are vaccinated doesn't mean that you will never get that disease. Recent outbreaks of whooping cough, mumps, and measles were in FULLY vaccinated children. If a male child gets mumps he will NOT grow up infertile, a boy has to get mumps DURING puberty in order for mumps to affect his sterility, but even then it only effects ONE testicle, so he will be able to have children. Vaccines do not only cause autism, but a whole load of health problems and serious risks like brain swelling, seizures, asthma, allergies, ADHD, death, and the list could go on. I would rather have a healthy child than an autistic one.Everyone wants their child to be healthy; physically and mentally. We have to balance where we believe our risks are - and have this backed up by qualified professionals as far as possible. There are risks on both sides. Given all factors, I have to go with extended breastfeeding, healthy diet, care on hygiene, exercise, adequate sleep as my best bet for keeping my children healthy - my children's allergy dr and pediatrician are supportive.I have an will vaccinate my baby. There is no scientific proof of autism and they constantly are regulating vaccines to their content and most don't contain mercury at all. And if it does its only a small amount. Me and my husband choose to vaccinate our child because the benefits way outweigh any risk. These vaccines are available to protect children from diseases that could kill them or seriously harm them. I know no one that has ever had a reaction from vaccinations, though I do know ones that have been hospitalised due to a preventable disease. Check out the FDA and the table of apparent mercury contents in vaccines http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/SafetyAvailability/VaccineSafety/UCM096228The question is: would you be able to live with yourself if your child were to die of a disease that could have been prevented with vaccines? Whooping cough is deadly to infants because they don't have the strength, literally, to sustain the cough. One day your child has a cold, the next minute he's turning blue and you're in the ER watching them shove a tube down his throat. Measles may seem like "just a rash", and for 85% of people, it is. The remaining 15% get terrible side effects from measles, including encephalitis. Mumps--no big deal, just painful salivary glands...until he grows up and realizes that he's sterile. Point being: even if vaccines did cause autism, I'd rather have an autistic child than a dead one.