Many of the same legislators demanding that Planned Parenthood be defunded to preventthem from selling aborted baby parts, are hypocritically supporting mandates that would force parents to inject their children with them. Its the equivalent of saying, lets ban sugar while mandating that parents feed their children sugar cookies and pretending that the sugar cookies dont contain sugar. It makes absolutely zero sense.Many of the same parents holding up a pro-life sign on Sunday, are leading the charge against others for not vaccinating their children with vaccines containing aborted baby ingredients on well-check baby Monday. In fact, some of the biggest Christian organizations and magazine publications have promoted vaccines containing aborted baby ingredients and have given platforms to atheists bashing the religious reasons for opting out, while demanding that we stand up against abortion. Hello? Hypocrisy anyone?No wonder people are confused. Youve got the church telling you to vaccinate your kid, the state shoving it down your throat, religious leaders preaching all things pro-life, and the vaccine enthusiastspretending the entire issue doesnt exist. So which is it? Do vaccine contain aborted fetal ingredients or not? If so, is it true that this was just a one-time shadeal? Is this some sort of conspiracy because it soundslike a play out of the worst sci-fi novel ever written. I wish. Aborted Baby Parts Are in Your Childs VaccinesYou might have also heard thatonly two babies were used and it was a really long time ago,which justifies the continued use of shooting up live babies with dead babies. This just simply isnt true and if you think it is, watch one of the many Planned Parenthood videos. These people are harvesting baby parts for a reason. Aborted baby is supposedly some sort of magic that makes vaccines more effective (albeit safely untested and could contribute to conditions like autism and cancer). In fact, an article in theAssociated Pressjust a few weeks ago said aborted baby parts are essential to vaccine science. Now why are aborted babies essential if new specimens are no longer used in the testing or manufacture of vaccines? Ill tell you why, because theyre still being used and this wasnt just a one-night stand. Sure, ultimately there may be only one cell line that makes it into each of these vaccines (lets all pretend that makes a difference), but do you have any idea how many aborted baby specimens are used until the right one is perfected for each vaccine? Does it make a difference to your pro-life conscience whether the aborted fetus is 50 years-old (and obtained illegally) or a few years old and obtained from a hatchet factory? The truth is, there are numerous cell lines used to obtain the perfect cell lines so many in fact that you could read Facebooks privacy policy faster than you could locate all of the human designer cells used in vaccine testing and manufacturing. Here are just a few examples: tumorigenic cell line is being used in the ebola, influenza, malaria, tuberculosis and HIV vaccines and came from a healthy 18 week-old fetus aborted for social reasons and the HEK 293 cell line was derived from the kidneys of a baby now being used to develop new influenza vaccines. Did you know how many abortions were performed until the WI-38 cell line that ended up in many of the vaccineswas selected? It is estimated that eightyelective abortions (recorded) were involved in the research and final production of the current rubella vaccine: 21 from the original WI-1 through WI-26 fetal cell lines that failed, plus WI-38 itself, plus 67 from the attempts to isolate the rubella virus. WI-1 through WI-25 cell strains werederivedfrom the lung, skin, muscle, kidney, heart, thyroid, thymus, and liver of 21 separate elective (and some speculate illegal) abortions.WI-44was derived from the lung of a three-month old surgically aborted fetus. WI-38 (RA 273) was derived from a 16-week-old female baby (20 cm long) who wasaborted in Sweden because the parents felt they had too many children. The baby was packed on ice and sent to the United States (speculation suggests without consent) where it was dissected. If you doany research on Hayflick (the man who produced these lines) you would see it riddled with ethical issues from obtaining specimens illegally to court battles over profits.Despite what you may have heard, these cell lines are not immortal.There is nothing on the face of this earth that is immortal. Only God holds that pleasure. The cell lines used in our vaccines last a long time but they will eventually die out and when they do, theyll have to be replaced.In fact, scientists are already trying to come up with the next best thing. In China, they recently developed theWalvax-2 cell line, which they plan to replace the MCR-5 cell line with.Walvax-2was derived from the lung tissue of a 3-month old fetus and at least nine babies were used in the process before finding the successful cell line. This cell line is supposed to be better, stronger, and will replicate faster than the cell lines its designed to replace. You may not care since these aborted babies came from China, but we all know that whats made in China never stays in China.So how are we supporting this industry by injecting a vaccine containing aborted fetal goodies?First, when we use vaccines that contain aborted baby ingredients, we are supporting the industry that profits off of it and increasing the demand for more cell lines and new cell lines to replace the old. Think about it, the doctor makes money off the patient (or our insurance), the pharmaceutical company makes money off the doctor. The company supplying the cell lines makes money off the pharmaceutical company, and the procurement company makes money off of the company on the receiving end of their specimens. This is a billion dollar industry. Where exactly is mamas paycheck? Oh yeah, thats right. She actually has to pay for the abortionor we (taxpayers) do. Whatever. Since there is a demand for products of induced abortions, the company [marketing the cell lines] becomes part of a market force that may encourage future abortions to take place. []Commercial factors could impel the company to put pressure on the developer or on an abortion clinic to deliver the goods by a certain time. Not opposing the marketing and distribution of such cell lines, and not looking for alternative ethical sources, is also a grave omission. Wong on theEthics of HEK 293Secondly, because were so complicit with the fact that this is happening, aborted baby ingredients are being used in more and more vaccines and the demand has never been greater. Look at the new whackadoodle vaccine. I wonder if they plan on telling the African people that there isaborted baby in their vaccines? (Probably not, because that would be considered witchcraft.) The demand for fetal tissue is created by a life-science industry growing at a rapid pace, not just in obtaining embryonic stem cells, but also in replacing and improving on cell lines such as HEK 293 for research and for use in the pharmaceutical industry. Wong onEthicsThird, we are supporting an industry by not demanding alternatives for our children (if you do vaccinate) and by not fighting for our religious exemption if we desire not to. But its cool, we can just inject foreign human DNA into our newborns and when they develop a chronic disease, we canuse a drug that was founded upon research using aborted baby and contains aborted baby ingredients to manage their disease caused by injecting aborted baby ingredients into their body in the first place. See how much we really need other women to abort their babies? Without them, how would we ever protect our kids from scary diseases like measles andchicken pox? But you know the argument, murdering one life (or 68 to get the cell line) to protect millions of kids from a benign childhood illness that yields lifetime immunity and protection against more serious diseases as adults, is worth it if we can make a vaccine that provides 4-10 years of junk immunity, causes serious adverse reactions, sheds infectingthe immunocompromised, babies, and pregnant women,and gives Grandmathe gift that keeps on givingshingles.Science May Think it Needs Aborted Babies, We Dont Weshould supposedly be okay with all things aborted baby because science needs us to. Apparently, weve come to a place where sciencecant make advancements without them. I mean, baby parts have been used for decades to develop cures for diseases we still dont have, trick our taste buds with synthetic flavor, make our skin dead-baby-butt-smooth, and for the assault of ourchildrens bodies with the DNA of a dead child. If science can't advance without abortions, we need to go back to the drawing board. Personally, if science has come to a place where it cant function without the abortion industry, we need to go back to the drawing board. Until then, you have the right to know whats in your vaccines and the right to opt out of them.If youd like to read more posts by Living Whole on aborted fetal ingredients in vaccines, please read God Does Not Support Vaccines and Dear Focus on the Family, Youre on the Wrong Side of the Vaccine Controversy.