Ty Bollinger: Well, you know, look at the HPV vaccine. On the package insert it says it may cause other kinds of cancers.Dr. Sherri Tenpenny: Yes. And we have already known that it has through the VAERS report. That there have been many girls who have been fully vaccinated with the HPV vaccine that within three months to about two years that are diagnosed with cervical cancer, massive cases of venereal warts.We know that less than 4% of the women in the United States have actually ever been exposed to the two viruses that are in the vaccine. So if the vaccine did anything, whichit doesnt, and it can cause a lot of harm, there are at least eight strains of HPV, human papillomavirus that are supposed to be associated with orknown to be associated with cancer. But the vaccine only covers two of them.So it gives this false sense of security to moms who think they are protecting their girls to think they will not get cancer. And that will say to the girls,well, I dont need to get a pap test because I have been protected.But there are other strains that can cause the cancer. And that brings up another point. Does the virus cause the cancer or is the cervix, which is an exposed organ, has a nutritional deficiency, the organ starts to break down and deteriorate, and then the virus gets embedded into that decaying and sick organ?The medical community says that the HPV caused the cancer when in actuality I believe that a lot of cervical dysfunction and cervical dysplasia are nutritional deficiency diseases. We have treated many of them in our office with vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin C, natural progesterone, and other types ofget them to stop smoking, get off the birth control pill, and it clears up and goes away in more than 90% of people that we have kept track of.Ty Bollinger: So when you give the body what it needs to run properly, it runs properly.Ty Bollinger:And one of the things you said earlier that most vaccines or all vaccines have not been tested for carcinogenicity.Dr. Sherri Tenpenny: Very good. [referring to Tys pronunciation of carcinogenicity]Ty Bollinger: Yeah. I have only got it right once. That is all I can say it today. That is shocking in light of the fact that you are saying that they have not been tested. The ingredients in the vaccines have not been tested to see if they could cause cancer especially in light of the fact that you look at the ingredients in some of these vaccines today, and I mean it is a virtual whos who of poisons.Dr. Sherri Tenpenny: It is. There are several things that really, really continuewell, all of it concerns me but to your point. Formaldehyde is used in the DPT vaccines and in the polio vaccines. And we have said or known for years that formaldehyde can cause all sorts of health problems and that the amount of formaldehyde exposure either through ambientair that you come in contact with or that you breath in very, very small particulate amounts have been known to cause lots of different problems including cancer.And it was only about, what, two or three years ago now that they formally said, Yes, formaldehyde will be added to the list of known carcinogens. But yet we continue to have known carcinogens in the vaccines and have them not be removed. And they have been injected for 50 years or more.Ty Bollinger: So it is worse than they have not been tested for carcinogenicity I got it right they have been tested and the formaldehydeDr. Sherri Tenpenny: At least some of the ingredients have shown to be known carcinogens.Please help bring more awareness aboutdangerous HPV vaccine side effectsby sharing this article with your friends and family below.