Vaccines are made up of small amounts of the bacteria, virus or other antigen and administered to stimulate the immune system to create antibodies to prevent future infections with the disease. Like many of the foods we eat, small amounts of chemicals may be added to the vaccine's formula to preserve or improve its effectiveness and keep it sterile.Sometimes a child may be sensitive to one of the components of a vaccine, and an allergic reaction may result. For this reason, you should discuss any allergies your child may have with your health care provider.Recently a small group of very vocal but misinformed individuals have made accusations regarding the safety of vaccines, claiming that vaccines contain a laundry list of toxins. In many instances these allegations are completely incorrect. In others, the claims are taken out of context.The first thing that you have to consider in any discussion about so called toxins in vaccines is that everyday compounds can be either beneficial or toxic depending on the quantity used. For example, let's consider water. No one would deny that it is important to drink plenty of water to remain healthy. But did you know that drinking too much water can kill you? While normal, healthy people have little to worry about, we still occasionally read stories about people actually dying from excess water consumption. But don't panic, usually this happens under extreme circumstances, like following long bouts of sweating due to intensive exercise or exposure to very hot days.A second mistake that people make when looking at ingredients in vaccines is that the whole doesn't always equal the sum of its parts. A simple example of this theory can be found in the example of everyday table salt. Table salt is made of two very dangerous elements, chlorine and sodium. Chlorine is a dangerous gas; sodium is a highly reactive element that explodes when it comes into contact with water. Yet if you combine these two dangerous elements you get a very safe compound, simple table salt.So before you classify a component as a 'toxin,' you must consider more than whether or not it is simply "in there." You have to look at the quantity, how it is used, whether it is combined with some other element, whether it is used as part of the production and then stripped back out, and many other factors.In addition to these ingredients you may have heard that vaccines contain products such as antifreeze and other outrageous components. This is not true. The claim of antifreeze being in vaccines comes from the use of polyethylene glycol in one brand of the flu vaccine to inactivate the virus. It is also used to purify certain vaccines. But polyethylene glycol is not antifreeze; it is just a component that is found in antifreeze, just as water is a component. Polyethylene glycol has a low toxicity,* and is used in a variety of products. It is the basis of a number of laxatives and skin creams, and is used as an irrigating solution in surgical procedures and in drug overdoses.