Editorial&colon; Silence isnt golden when it comes to vaccinesHAVE a look at your left shoulder&colon; if you are past your mid-twenties it almost certainly bears a circular scar. Do you remember how it got there? You queued up in the school hall, perhaps, or outside the nurses office, watching your friends rubbing their arms as they walked away, relieved at having survived their BCG jab.The Bacille Calmette-Gurin vaccination was given to protect you from tuberculosis. What we are only just realising is that, in common with several other vaccines, it may have done far more than that.There is growing evidence that vaccines have a wider-ranging influence on the immune system than we thought. In Africa, for instance, studies have shown that measles vaccine cuts deaths from all other infections combined by a third, mainly by protecting against pneumonia, sepsis and diarrhoea.Even in the West, where it is far less common for children to die from infectious illnesses, there are still surprising benefits&colon; some vaccines seem to reduce our susceptibility to eczema and asthma. Exactly what causes these non-specific effects, as they are termed, is a mystery. But some scientists are arguing that, despite the uncertainties, it is time to start harnessing them more effectively.The World Health Organization, which is the main provider of vaccines in developing countries, has asked a group of vaccine experts to get to the bottom of it. This could have huge implications for global healthcare, says Christine Benn, a senior researcher at the Statens Serum Institute in Denmark and a member of the WHO committee. Vaccines have been a fantastic success, but we can probably do much better by taking non-specific effects into account. An examination of these issues is long overdue.Considering vaccines have been used since the 1800s and are the central plank of our public health system, it may seem hard to believe that such profound effects could have gone ignored all this time. In fact, an early 20th century Swedish physician called Carl Nslund did notice something was up after the BCG vaccine was introduced in his country. Vaccinated children had a much higher chance of reaching their first birthday even though TB normally kills older children.In the 1940s and 50s, trials in the US and UK suggested that BCG-vaccinated children had a 25 per cent lower death rate from diseases other than TB. But no one took much notice until 30 years ago, when a Danish anthropologist called Peter Aaby began working in the West African state of Guinea-Bissau. In 1979 he witnessed a severe measles outbreak that killed 1 in 4 infants affected. Aaby arranged for measles vaccination to be introduced, but was surprised to see that even after the epidemic abated, immunised children were more likely to survive childhood. Aaby began digging, and discovered studies from elsewhere in Africa, as well as Bangladesh and Haiti, that also suggested measles vaccine gives a wider kind of protection. We are collecting more and more data consistent with non-specific effects being very important, says Aaby.What could the explanation be? Several lines of evidence suggest that our immune systems can be affected by many factors, including past encounters with microbes. Those microbes can be in the environment or a vaccine syringe. If infections can alter the immunological milieu, it is not a major leap to suggest that vaccines might also do so, said Andrew Pollard, head of the Oxford Vaccine Centre at the University of Oxford, in an editorial about Aabys work last year.If past infections can alter the immune system, it is not a major leap to suggest that vaccines might also do soAccording to the old view of vaccines, they work by priming what is known as our adaptive immune system. This consists of various defence cells circulating in the blood, which make antibodies and other molecules that recognise and latch on to specific foreign proteins on bacteria, viruses or other germs.It is this lock-and-key specificity that is responsible for our immune memory. On our first encounter with the measles virus, say, the immune cells that make potent antibodies to it reproduce, giving rise to successive generations of daughter cells that make progressively more powerful antibodies. The end product is highly proficient measles-killing machines that linger in our bodies for years. Thats why, if we re-encounter the virus, it is defeated so quickly we dont even notice.But that may not be the whole story. Another, evolutionarily older, branch of our defences known as the innate immune system might also be playing a role. These cells are programmed to react to anything unfamiliar or untoward, such as the chemicals released when tissues are damaged, attacking any molecules or microorganisms that might pose a threat. Last year, surprising evidence emerged that BCG stimulates the innate immune system as well as the adaptive one.In people who received the shot, certain kinds of innate immune cells responded more strongly to bacterial and fungal pathogens completely unrelated to the TB bug. This is the first indication that the innate immune system reacts to vaccines, and the researchers suggested it could explain some of the general immune-boosting effects of BCG. Its quite preliminary data, but its very important, says Nigel Curtis, head of infectious diseases at the Royal Childrens Hospital Melbourne and the University of Melbourne, Australia, who studies BCG.The discovery may be only one part of the explanation for BCGs mysterious powers, though. For starters, it emerged recently that even memory cells of the adaptive immune system can target unrelated microbes, if there is sufficient cross-reactivity with a germ we have previously vanquished.But the theory that probably has most evidence behind it concerns two competing arms of the adaptive immune system, known as type 1 and type 2 helper T-cells. Broadly, type 1 cells promote immune reactions against bacteria and viruses, while type 2 cells are geared towards fighting off parasitic worms in the gut. Both BCG and the measles vaccine seem to tip the balance to type 1, according to studies of the antibodies released into the bloodstream after vaccination.Whatever the explanation is, we might be able to maximise the benefits, either by designing new vaccines or augmenting the effects of existing ones. But the WHO committee has another line of inquiry&colon; there are suggestions that one vaccine could have harmful non-specific effects. The vaccine under suspicion is DTP, which prevents diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis, otherwise known as whooping cough.It was Aaby, again, who first drew attention to this. These days, he works as a vaccine researcher for the Danish Statens Serum Institute, but he is still based mainly in Guinea-Bissau. For several months in 2001 and 2002, health centres in the capital city, Bissau, ran out of DTP, and some infants never got their shot. Aaby noted that, among children who had been admitted to hospital for some reason, those who had had the shot were over twice as likely to die during their hospital stay. Further studies showed that the effect was particularly pronounced for girls.What no one knows is why DTP might have such an effect. One possible explanation is that the pertussis component is made from killed whooping cough bacteria. There are other ways to make vaccines, including using live but weakened bacteria or viruses, with both BCG and the measles shot being this type. Killed vaccines, on the other hand, seem to tip the type 1/type 2 balance away from the bacteria and virus-fighting type 1 arm. Animal studies show that, for unknown reasons, females have a naturally stronger type 2 bias, which could explain the sex difference in mortality seen in Guinea-Bissau.No one is suggesting we stop giving the DTP vaccine. Its protection from diptheria, tetanus and whooping cough is hugely beneficial especially in the West. Mortality from infectious diseases is incredibly low in wealthy countries in 2013, Pollard says. Any non-specific effects are likely to be trivial and unmeasurable.However, Aaby thinks that, in developing countries, there might be cleverer ways to schedule the vaccinations that increase their overall benefit. Thats because BCG and measles seem to be such strong immune boosters they may be able to undo the immune-weakening effect of DTP. So Aaby is planning to test giving DTP and BCG simultaneously, in the hope it leads to an even more positive effect on the immune system overall. Another possibility is to shorten the period of time during which a childs last shot is DTP, by giving the measles vaccine earlier in life. Im in no doubt we could reduce mortality in low-income countries, Aaby says.But the case for change is not yet strong enough to convince everyone. Most of Aabys studies are what are known as observational. That means they count the number of deaths in children who ended up getting different vaccines by chance. These kinds of studies can lead to bias in the results. Randomised controlled trials are the only way you can answer this question, Pollard says.Aaby has written some papers, and some are more interesting and credible than others, says Paul Fine of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, who is also on the WHO committee. But were not in a position where they should influence [vaccination] schedules.Benn is not so sure. While observational studies can be biased, any bias would tend to be towards showing DTP in a more favourable light, she says. Thats because one reason for missing out on a vaccination is that you are already sick. So unvaccinated children are more likely to have higher death rates.In addition, it is hard to get the go-ahead for randomised trials of vaccination schedules that are different to the WHO-recommended one. Where randomised trials are just not possible, observational studies should definitely be taken into account, she says.We may be able to save several million more lives each year just by making better use of current vaccines, says Frank Shann of Melbournes Royal Childrens Hospital, who has worked on child health in the developing world for more than 30 years.It is not just in poor countries that vaccine programmes may need to be reconsidered. Many developed countries are phasing out routine BCG vaccination as TB rates have receded. In the UK, for instance, BCG is now given only in certain inner city areas with large immigrant populations, who could have been infected in their home country.That might have affected more than our ability to fight off infectious diseases. Several studies have suggested BCG reduces eczema and asthma by 25 per cent, and reduces food allergies by 35 per cent. Thats not a small effect, Curtis points out.The latest thinking is that allergies are caused by an imbalance in type 1 and 2 helper T-cells, with type 2 becoming too dominant. Allergies may be on the rise in the West because we no longer meet enough germs in childhood to strengthen the type 1 arm, according to the hygiene hypothesis. If BCG does push the balance back to type 1, that could be why it reduces allergies.Again, though, these studies were not purpose-built&colon; they were done by looking back at data collected for other purposes and most were fairly small. Curtis is about to begin a proper trial looking at this issue in Melbourne, which will give the BCG shot to 1400 newborn children who wouldnt normally have got it. While the primary aim is to see if BCG reduces allergic disease, a subset of 200 children will regularly have blood samples taken to see how the vaccine has affected their response to infectious diseases too. Thats a really interesting question, Pollard says.There is no doubt that BCG has effects on the immune system that are wider than just defending against TB. It even stimulates an immune reaction against bladder cancer and is now a standard treatment for this disease, delivered directly into the bladder.Despite the implications of his work, Aaby has had no end of trouble getting people to listen. Thats probably because, even though most of the non-specific effects are beneficial, the DTP effects are potentially harmful. And people are wary of triggering another vaccine scare, like the one over the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. Our observations are clearly inconvenient, says Aaby.Thats a fair analysis, Pollard thinks. The last thing to do is induce a loss of confidence in immunisation, he says. What if children in poor countries die as a result?But Benn reckons it is important to be open about the unknowns. People are scared of causing vaccination rates to drop overnight, but I think we could do with a more balanced discussion than there is now, she says.Aaby is no troublemaker&colon; he is a respected researcher leading networks of scientists. Support for non-specific effects of vaccines comes from dozens of studies involving many thousands of children. And vaccine researcher Richard Moxon at the University of Oxford has called Aabys work an important body of meticulously compiled data that merits serious consideration.This is certainly a field with many unknowns&colon; not only whether the non-specific effects are real and if so, why they occur, but also which other vaccines may cause them. And can we design new vaccines to maximise the benefits? While the mechanisms are not yet understood, says Calman MacLennan, a researcher for Novartis, they are under investigation and any findings would certainly inform the design of future vaccines.The questions cannot be answered soon enough for Curtis. Theres enough data out there to suggest there is an effect, and I think that needs investigating properly, he says. If this is real, its too important to ignore.This article appeared in print under the headline Small shot, big impact