Total Stimulus Appropriation: $300 million to U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.New Jerseys Portion: On April 9 the Federal Centers for Disease Control announced the first $198 million in awards nationwide under Section 317 Immunization funding. New Jersey will receive $5.9 million for vaccine programs out of this funding. The initial allocation will come in August 2009, with the remainder of funding coming in early 2010. The New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services plans to use 100% of the funds for vaccine purchase. The allocation of the remaining $100 Million is still being determined by the Centers for Disease Control.Allocation Method: TheNew Jersey Vaccines for Children (NJVFC) Program are receiving funding under a federal formula that is based largely on overall population size.New Jersey expects to use stimulus funding to support immunization of both children and adults. The Vaccines for Children (VFC) Program provides funding for vaccines for uninsured and underinsured children. Publicly purchased vaccines are available at no charge for eligible children. The national VFC Program is known for increasing immunization rates. The program promotes implementation of new vaccines. There are approximately 1,140 participating NJVFC sites in New Jersey, 96% of which are private physician offices. Children can go to their regular physician, a community/rural health center or to a local health department to seek immunizations through the VFC Program. New Jersey is now beginning the process of identifying additional vaccination sites to deliver immunizations. With the additional federal stimulus funds, New Jersey can provide vaccines to more than 50,000 additional uninsured children and adults. Uninsured adults in community health centers and staff and residents of Long Term Care facilities would be among those who would be eligible to be vaccinated with federal stimulus funds.Funds are allocated by the CDC. New Jersey will report on quarterly basis regarding the expenditure of these funds to the federal Office of Management and Budget.The stimulus funds will be used for vaccines that will be available to all underinsured children, adolescents who are not eligible for the VFC Program. Uninsured adults in community health centers and uninsured staff and residents in long-term care facilities also would be eligible for vaccines using the stimulus funding.March-April 2009 CDC determined the formula by which funds will be awarded.New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services, 1-800-367-6543