Many people feel helpless when it comes to fighting the autism epidemic. And many feel even more helpless when it comes to doing something about the lack of safety regarding vaccines.When we talk about this issue with friends, loved ones, and especially strangers on social media, its often met with ridicule, anger and denial that there is a problem. Our media is flat out covering things up and printing stories that are protecting the pharmaceutical companies interests. Our governments globally have been involved in keeping vital information from the public. This has to stop.There are many thousands of reports with VAERS, the vaccine adverse reporting system, ranging from injuries that are mild, to severe, to permanent injuries, or even worse, deaths. The numbers are showing that the problems from vaccines are far more than one in a million.Parents that are aware of these issues, are now choosing not to vaccinate their children. Many say they feel more concerned about the side effects of vaccines than the disease, and only would if vaccines can be made safely. Whilst some question if this is even possible, no one denies this: weve got to take a very good look into vaccines.President Donald Trump has openly said he believes vaccines can trigger autism, sothere seems to be hope for the first time in a very long time, that something may be done finally to have vaccines looked at under a much needed microscope.Dont our children deserve better? Dont we all deserve better?Here at CE, we have published countless articles regarding the concerns with vaccines of which there are so many and its a subject we are very passionate about.A petition has just been published that needs 100,000 signatures by March 31 so we want to help make that happen.This is what the petition is about:We cannot make America great with so many disabled autistic children, so we must urgently face the autism epidemic, admit its reality and confront its stunning rise. In addition, we must rein in Americas exploding vaccine schedule. Crucial to any reform in both autism and vaccine policy is an initiative to shine light on corruption and drain the swamp of unaccountable bureaucrats.We ask you to take six actions: 1. Declare autism a national emergency. 2. Convene a Presidential Commission on Vaccine Safety and Scientific Integrity. 3. Depose the CDC whistleblower Dr. William Thompson. 4. Conduct a study comparing total health outcomes in vaccinated and unvaccinated populations. 5. Create a National Vaccine Safety Board. 6. Repeal and Replace the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act.If President Donald Trump could do all of these things, it would change the future immediately. We would no longer be looking at a possible autism rate of 1 in 2 children that is feared.please sign and share this petition to the whitehouseIf you would like to take a look at the injuries reported with VAERS please click here: