Ty Bollinger: Talk about some of the chemicals in the vaccines, some of the additives, the adjuvants, and other ingredients that might be carcinogenic.Dr. Robert Scott Bell: Sure. I think the biggest class of them are heavy metals. Mercury [is] A#1. If you look in a homeopathic materia medica there are pages and pages and pages. Almost more than any other substance listed in that materia medica, of potential effects and actual effects at even minute doses minute exposure to mercury.And this affects every system of the body: the endocrine, the neurological system, you name it. The digestive system, the epithelial tissue. Mercury is the biggest baddy of them all and ultimately, I believe, facilitates cancer.Now aluminum is their next go-to adjuvant because it hyperstimulates and aggravates the immune cells and they want to elicit this antibody artificially is the best way to say it. And they think thats going to be enough to prevent you from getting a disease. But, if youve ever had chickenpox as a child like I did and I got my kids to chickenpox parties when they were kids too to get it early. They now have what we call a natural immunity against the chickenpox virus. But, does it last your whole life?Well, apparently not in everybody because theres something called Shingles, which is a manifestation of the herpes zoster varicella or the varicella virus in adulthood. In cases where you already had the chickenpox, so you already have the antibodies and the recognition of that virus. So why is it that even though you have the antibody you still succumb to it in a different manifestation? Its because the antibody is not sufficient to protect you.I dont speak ill of antibodies. Its not like I protest antibodies; I mean theyre good, theyre fine. But theyre not really the way we primarily interact or protect ourselves. Theyre way down the list of issues.Primary immunity is gut health, its liver health, its hydration, its mineralization of the body. Lets say youve weakened yourself to the point where youre no longer functional in an immune way. You can identify a virus because you have an antibody and have not the energy or the strength or the tools to address it and protect yourself, so what good is the antibody then?So its an immature understanding of immunology and yet theyre the ones with the duhgrees, which is why I call them a duhgree because theyre not using the sense God may have given them. When they understand that and they say Of course, weve got to embrace the natural world. Weve got to restore integrity to the terrain. Weve got to look at the floral issues, weve got to get rid of the heavy metals, and those are just some of the things.Weve got foreign RNA and DNA from animals, aborted fetal tissue in these vaccines. Youve got formaldehyde, youve got antifreeze-like compounds. There are so many things that if you knew what was in it, as I said, [and] you added that to a babys bottle you would be charged with attempted murder.