This is the 2ndout of 13 most popular articles on Skeptical Raptor for the2016 Year in Review. Its all about debunking theGardasil safety and efficacy myths.Recently, I read anarticle published in Pediatrics that described how educating either teenagers or their parents about HPV vaccinations had little effect on the overall vaccination rate for the vaccine.Essentially, the researchers found that it was a 50:50 probability that any teen would get the vaccine, regardless of their knowledge of HPV and the vaccine itself. Some of the reasons why the HPV vaccine uptake is so low is a result of several myths about Gardasil safety and efficacy.So I thought about why that Pediatrics study found that education about HPV and Gardasil didnt move the needle on vaccination uptake. Its possible that the benefits of the vaccine is overwhelmed by two factorsfirst, that theres a disconnect between personal activities today vs. a disease that may or may not show up 20-30 years from now; and second, that the invented concerns about the HPV quadrivalent vaccine, promulgated by the usual suspects in the antivaccination world, makes people think that there is a clear risk from the vaccine which is not balanced by preventing cancer decades from now. Its frustrating.Genitalhuman papillomavirus(HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection(STI)in the USA. There are more than 40 HPV sub-types that can infect the genital areas of males and females. Additionally,some HPV types can also infect the mouth and throat. HPV isgenerally transmitted from personal contact during vaginal, anal or oral sex.HPV is linked to cancers in men and women, and because there are so many subtypes, research has established which HPV types are linked to certain cancers.HPV is believed to cause nearly 5% of all new cancers across the world, making it almost as dangerous with regards to cancer as tobacco.According to the CDC, roughly79 million Americans are infected with HPVapproximately14 million Americans contractHPV every year. Most individuals dont even know they have the infection until the onset of cancer. About 27,000 HPV-related cancers are diagnosed in the USA every year.The originalHPV quadrivalentvaccine, known asGardasil(or Silgard in Europe), canprevent infection byhuman papillomavirus,substantially reducing the risk of these types of cancers. An HPV bivalent vaccine, known as Cervarix, is used in some countries, but only provides protection again two of the subtypes most associated with cervical cancer.Thenew version of Gardasil,recently cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration, protects teens and young adults from 9 subtypes of HPV, helping prevent more cancers.According to the package insert, Gardasil 9 is indicated in females aged 9-26 years for the prevention ofcervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancer caused by HPV types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58; genital warts caused by types 6 and 11; and various precancerous or dysplastic lesions of the cervix, vulva, vagina, and anus caused by types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58. The vaccine is also indicated in males aged nine through 15 years for the prevention of anal cancer caused by types 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58; genital warts caused by types 6 and 11; and anal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 1, 2, and 3 caused by types 6, 11, 16, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58.Currently in the United States, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)recommendsthat preteen girls and boys aged 11 or 12 are vaccinated against HPV. The immunizationis also recommended for teenage girls and young women up to the age of 26 who did not receive it when they were younger, and teenage boys and young men up to the age of 21.A few weeks ago, I posted an article about how to actually prevent cancers. There are no magical panaceas that prevent any of the 250 or so cancers. Theres no magical supplement or pill. There are just a few ways to prevent cancersstop smoking, stay out of the sun, lose weight, avoid radiation, and get the HPV vaccine.Gardasil prevents at least 6 types of cancer, and thats better than all the natural supplements that you could consume.Ive written nearly 50 articles about the HPV vaccine, mostly debunking myths, but also reviewing some of the best literature published today. I thought Id bring them together in one place, so that it can work as a link of links for HPV vaccine information and myth debunking. Ill just link to my articles that deal with the subject, and within those articles will be links and citations for the peer-reviewed articles, which hopefully will help the reader, if you are concerned about Gardasil safety and efficacy, or maybe youll pass it to someone else, if they are on the fence.The Japanese Health Ministry seems to love myths, so there has been a big kerfuffle in that country regarding HPV cancer preventing vaccine. Here are my articles that focus on that countrys activities with the HPV vaccine.As Ive said a thousands times, there areno debates about vaccines, and certainly noneabout Gardasil safety and efficacy. The real science, published in real medical journals, and reviewed by experts in epidemiology, virology, infectious diseases, cancer, and other biomedical researchers, is all that matters. If the other side wants to be taken seriously, they need to get a Ph.D., get into real research, and publish real papers. Im going to guess that if they did that, they would realize that vaccines are safe and effective, and theyd become as loud an advocate as I am.Lets be clear. Gardasil prevents cancer. And its about as safe a vaccine thats ever been made. Every teenager in the USA, where the vaccine is essentially free (drop a comment if you cant get it for free, and Ill point you in the right direction), should get the vaccine.Editors note: This article was originally published in December2014. It will be constantly updatedto include more comprehensive information, to improve readability and to add current research.