Wow, what a day! Lets start at the beginningDaniel Neides, MD, MBA,is the Medical Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Cleveland Clinic Wellness Institute and has won countless awards. Hes also one of the most respected holistic MDs in the U.S.Last week, Dr Neides penned a well written piece on Cleveland.com about the real dangers of vaccine adjuvants which included carcinogens (things that cause cancer). One of my Health Nuts read the article (it had thousands of reads) and sent it my way (thearticle is linked below).So today, Sunday, January 8th, I did a live video on it. When I started the live feed the article worked fine but when my video went viral (47,000 live viewers), the article somehow disappeared from Cleveland.com.We searched and searched for the original to no avail. Finally, Cleveland.com responded to the article (obviously) being taken down:We had several troll sites send over their minions to our page during the live video so I dont know if there was an overload of people looking at the article, if it was intentionallytake down (ahem) or just one big ole coincidence.But it gets worse!Now the good doctor has been threatened by Cleveland Clinic that they may take disciplinary action against him (at this time we arent sure what that might be). This award-winning holistic MD and writer is the head of the famous Cleveland Clinic Wellness Center (he writes extensively on alternative medicine) and they are going to discipline him. For what exactly? Expressing his opinion?Gee, will it be 40 lashes? Lets just hope this holistic MD doesnt end up dead like so many other holistic doctors (including his own colleagues one AT THE SAME HOSPITAL!) who spoke out against vaccines last year (some of whom were our friends).Of course the allegedly alternative Cleveland Clinic (which has talked about vegan, holistic and alternative diets and health care for years) immediately said they didnt agree with him on his vaccine article and then Dr Niedes publicly apologized.All links (see below) supportthis 100% factual information. You can also check out the video- it did get a bit intense!Article that disappeared DURING our live viral video but is now back up(the publication said it was restored and claim to be unsure how it disappeared in the first place).Article from the Cleveland Clinic dissing their own head MD with the threat of discipline on him.Article where the doctor (voluntarily we hope!) apologizes. Most colleagues I talk with highly doubt he had a choice in the matter and assume that he will still be disciplined. We hope its not too harsh and he lives to tell about all of this.Dr. Neides damning article about vaccines was originally here before they took it down.