A studylinking vaccines to autism and other neurological problems has been removed by a Frontiers journal after receiving heavy criticism sinceit was accepted last week.The abstract published online in Frontiers in Public Health after being accepted November 21 reported findings from anonymous online questionnaires completed by 415 mothers of home-schooled children 6-12 years old. Nearly 40 percent of children had not been vaccinated, and those that had were three times more likely to be diagnosed withneurodevelopmental disorders such as autism, the study found.After receiving criticism on Twitter, Frontiers released a public statement, noting that the studywas only provisionally accepted but not published, and is being re-reviewed. When asked for a comment, a Frontiers spokesperson referred us to thestatement.A cached version of the abstract of Vaccination and Health Outcomes: A Survey of 6- to 12-year-old Vaccinated and Unvaccinated Children based on Mothers Reports, is still available online.According to the abstracts results:In this study based on mothers reports, the vaccinated had a higher rate of allergies and NDD than the unvaccinated. Vaccination, but not preterm birth, remained significantly associated with NDD after controlling for other factors. However, preterm birth combined with vaccination was associated with an apparent synergistic increase in the odds of NDD. Further research involving larger, independent samples is needed to verify and understand these unexpected findings in order to optimize the impact of vaccines on childrens health.Even the publishers response to the criticism didnt entirely go over well:Twitter users also noted that the study appears to have asked for crowdsourced funding via the Age of Autism online newspaper. A user also linked to a site that posted a letterfirst author Anthony Mawson, a visiting professor at Jackson State University,allegedly wrote in support of the now-discredited work ofnotorious anti-vaccine researcher Andrew Wakefield.In 2011, Mawsonfiled a lawsuit against the Mississippi State Department of Health, allegingthat the state health officer interfered with his then-position at theUniversity of Mississippi Medical Center (resulting in his contract not getting renewed) after he advocated the need for more studies on vaccine safety. In 2012, the suit was dismissed.The paper was peer-reviewed by Linda Mullin Elkins, a chiropractor at Life University, and Kelly Hsieh from the University of Illinois at Chicago. It was edited by Amit Agrawal at Gandhi Medical College in India.In July, the same Frontiers journal retracted a study on chemtrails, an age-old conspiracy theory about the dangers of cloud trails released by jet planes.Earlier this month, another Frontiers journal retracted a paper about predicting whether people are dead or alive by looking at their photographs.Frontiers isnt the first publisher to pull a paper linking vaccines to problems following heavy criticism in February, Vaccine temporarily removed then soon retracted a paperlinking the vaccine for Human papillomavirus to behavioral problems in mice; a modified version of the paper waslater republished.In 2015, Jeffrey Beall added Frontiers to hislist of potential, possible, or probable predatory scholarly publishers, a move that prompted some debate among academicsabout whether it merited such a designation.Like Retraction Watch? Consider making a tax-deductible contribution to support our growth. You can also follow us on Twitter, like us on Facebook, add us to your RSS reader, sign up on our homepage for an email every time theres a new post, or subscribe to our daily digest. Click here to review our Comments Policy. For a sneak peek at what were working on, click here.