When am I most at risk from flu?Can I go to work or school if I have been in contact with somebody who has recently been diagnosed with flu?Does everyone need a flu jab?Why are certain groups targeted for the flu jab?Can a GPvaccinate anyone else?Is my child entitled to the flu vaccine?How long will the flu jab protect me for?Can I have a flu jab while I'm taking antibiotics?How long does the flu vaccine take to become effective?If I had the flu jab last year, do I need it again now?Can the flu jab cause flu?When is the best time to get my flu jab?Is there anyone who cannot have a flu jab?Can people get the flu vaccine privately?Why is it recommended that healthcare workersare vaccinated?Can I have a flu jab if I'm breastfeeding?Is it OK to have the flu vaccine at any time during pregnancy?How do I get the flu vaccine if my GP has run out?Do I need Tamiflu and how do I get a prescription?I have had flu symptoms for five days. Can I have visitors?Flu circulates every winter.This means many people get ill around the same time. In a bad year, this can be an epidemic. However, it is impossible to predict howmany cases offlu there will be each year.Yes. You should go about your everyday business, but stay at home if you develop flu-like symptoms.No, just people who are at special risk of problems if they catch flu. Ask your GP about having an NHSflu vaccination if:You should also be offered the flu vaccination if you are a healthcare or social care worker directly involved in patient care.Some pharmacies also offer free NHS flu vaccination to eligible adults. They do not offer this service for children.Find out more about who should have the flu vaccine.Complications such as bronchitis and pneumonia are more common in people with other diseases, especially if they are also elderly. Almost all of the deaths related to flu are in people in these groups.In long-stay residential homes, vaccination prevents the rapid spread of flu among residents.The final decision about who should be offered the vaccination on the NHSis a matter foryour GP, based onyour medical history and circumstances.If your child isaged between six months and two yearsold andis in a high-risk group for flu,they should have the flu jab.If your child is between two and 17 years old and is in a high-risk group for flu, they should have the nasal spray flu vaccine instead of the injection.Children aged twoand threepluschildren in school years one, twoand three are also eligible for thenasal spray flu vaccine.The flu jab will provide protection for you for the upcoming flu season. People eligible for flu vaccination should have the vaccine each year.Yes, it's fine to have the flu jab while you are taking a course of antibiotics, provided you are not ill with fever.It takes between 10 and 14 days for your immune system to respond fully after you've had the flu jab.Yes. The viruses that cause flu can change every year, which means the flu (and the vaccine) this winter may be different from last winter.No. The vaccine does not contain any live viruses, so it cannot cause flu.You mayget a slight temperature and aching muscles for a couple of days afterwards, and your arm may feel a bit sore where you had the injection. Other reactions are rare, and flu jabs are very safe.The best time is as soon as your GP gets supplies of the vaccine. This willusually bebetween September and early November.Butdon't worry if you've missed this time, you can have the flu jab later in the winter although it's best to get it as early as possible.Yes. You should not have the flu vaccine ifyou have everhad an allergic reaction to a flu vaccine or one of its ingredients. This happens very rarely. You also need to take precautions if you have an egg allergy.Read more about who should not have the flu jab.People who aren'teligible for a flu jab on the NHScan pay for a flu vaccination privately. The flu vaccine may be available from pharmacies or in supermarkets. Itis provided on a private patient basis and you have to pay. The vaccinecosts up to20.Vaccination prevents healthcare workers passing flu on to, or getting flu from, their patients. It also helps the NHS to keep running effectively during a flu outbreak, when GPs and hospital services are particularly busy.Yes. The vaccine posesno risk to a breastfeeding mother or her baby, or to pregnant women.Yes. The flu vaccine is recommended for pregnant women andis safe to haveat any stage of pregnancy, including in the first trimester and right up to the expected due date. It helps protect the mother-to-be and hernewborn babyfrom catching flu.Read more about the flu jab in pregnancy.Ifyour GPhasrun out of flu vaccine, theyshould work with neighbouring practices to obtain further supplies. The vaccine manufacturers and suppliers usuallyhave stocks available for ordering.Some local pharmacies offer a free flu vaccination service to NHS patients who are eligible for flu vaccination. This service is only available for adults, however, not children.Tamiflu is an antiviral medicine that is used to treat flu. Your GP will decide if you needTamiflu and will prescribe it if necessary.You are probably not infectious after five days and will be clear of flu by seven days.