1. What is the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (VICP)?The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Internet Home Page can be found at the following address: The toll-free number for the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program is 1-800-338-2382 to obtain an information packet detailing how to file a claim, criteria for eligibility, and the documentation required. For further information write to: For information on the rules of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, including requirements for filing a petition, call 1-202-219-9657 or write to:There are three means to qualify for compensation: A petitioner must show that an injury found on the Vaccine Injury Table occurred; or A petitioner must prove that the vaccine caused the condition; or A petitioner must prove that the vaccine significantly aggravated a pre-existing condition. The Vaccine Injury Table lists specific injuries or conditions and the time frames in which they must occur after vaccine administration. The Table is a legal mechanism for defining complex medical conditions and allows a statutory "presumption of causation." It is much easier to demonstrate a "Table Injury" than to prove that the vaccine caused the condition, and most claims allege that a Table Injury occurred. Compensation is not awarded, however, if the Court determines that the injury or death was due to a cause unrelated to the vaccine, even if it was a Table Injury. In contrast to civil liability suits, hearings to determine eligibility under the VICP usually last only 1 or 2 days. A case found eligible for compensation is scheduled for a hearing to assess the amount of compensation. Most claims found to be noncompensable receive awards for attorney's fees and costs.For vaccine administrators and manufacturers: The Act requires that vaccine injury claims involving covered vaccines given on or after October 1, 1988, must first be filed with the VICP before civil litigation through the tort system can be pursued. If a petitioner accepts an award under the VICP, the claim cannot be brought subsequently to the tort system. For vaccine manufacturers: In addition to the above, the legislation sets new, more restrictive standards for actions alleging injury from these covered vaccines in cases that are brought to the tort system.On March 10, 1995, a modified Vaccine Injury Table (and the accompanying Qualifications and Aids to Interpretation) became effective for all claims filed on or after that date. Significant changes include the addition of chronic arthritis under vaccines containing rubella (e.g., MMR,MR, R vaccines), and the removal of Residual Seizure Disorder and Hypotonic-Hyporesponsive Episode (HHE) under the DTP vaccine. The definition of Encephalopathy was clarified in the Qualifications and Aids to Interpretation. On March 24, 1997, further modifications to the Vaccine Injury Table took effect that include addition of brachial neuritis and removal of encephalopathy for tetanus-containing vaccines, addition of thrombocytopenia and vaccine-strain measles virus infection, removal of residual seizure disorder for measles-containing vaccines, and addition of vaccine-strain poliovirus infection for live polio virus vaccine. Modifications also include the addition of three new vaccines: hepatitis B, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and varicella. The Rule also provides for "automatic " addition of future vaccines recommended by CDC for routine administration to children, although injuries for such vaccines will be specified only after additional rulemaking. Coverage for the three new vaccines went into effect August 6, 1997. All other Table changes become effective for all claims filed on or after March 24.