Vaccines are Safe and Effective How do they do it?Vaccine horror stories are everywhere these days: Stories of young girls fainting in thedoctor offices after receiving the HPV vaccines. Stories of mothers taking a healthy childfor a round of shots to their pediatrician returning home with a severely sick or deadchild. Stories of children receiving the chicken pox vaccine and experiencing severecases of chicken pox months later. A 1:50 rate of autism in the United States, increasingautoimmune disorders, seizures, allergies and many other illnesses and disorders.Despite all this, your pediatrician, health officials, governments and pharmaceuticalcompanies proclaim that vaccines are very safe. Did you ever wonder how they deriveat such faulty conclusions?Any trained scientist or statistician understands that you want to use a null hypothesisto disprove a possible causal relationship between two correlated events. The nullhypothesis in this case would be: There is no causal connection between vaccinationsand their alleged adverse short-term and long-term side effects.If we were going to test this hypothesis, I would randomly sample research subjects (alarge sample size of perhaps 100,000 would help exclude other factors) and divide thesubjects into two groups. One group will get the vaccine, and the other group wouldreceive a saline shot. Both groups would then be monitored for at least four weeks toobserve whether short-term side effects were more prevalent in the vaccinated groupthan in the placebo group.To determine whether or not there is a causal link between vaccinations and longterm medical complications would be a little more difficult. Nonetheless, if one groupof subjects has received a placebo and the other has received the vaccine, it wouldbe possible to mail a questionnaire to randomly selected parents who have chosen toimmunize their children and to an equal-sized group of those who havent. A phoneinterview could also take place. This would be a good starting point to see whetherthere are differences in the long-term health and development of vaccinated childrenversus that of non-vaccinated children. If no significant differences are found betweenthe two groups in either the short term or long term, then the pro-vaccine factions canrejoice, because theyve disproven the anti-vaccinators claims and proved that thevaccine in question does not cause short-term or long-term complications.If researchers wanted to know the truth about vaccines effects, it would be easyenough to discover. Lets take a look at what methodology the pharmaceuticalindustries use to obtain the results they desire. Here it is, as explained in the packageinserts for the hepatitis B vaccine by GlaxoSmithKline:Ten double-blind studies involving 2,252 subjects showed no significantdifference in the frequency or severity of adverse experiences betweenENGERIX-B and plasma-derived vaccines.In thirty-six clinical studies, a total of 13,495 doses of ENGERIX-B wereadministered to 5,071 healthy adults and children who were initially seronegativefor hepatitis B markers and healthy neonates. All subjects were monitored forfour days post-administration. (1)What the pharmaceutical company should have done is inject one group with thevaccine and the other group with a non-vaccine placebo (i.e., saline). What thepharmaceutical company did, instead, was inject one group with the hepatitis B vaccine,and the other group with a different vaccine. Then they monitored both groups andfound that the recipients of their vaccine had no significant difference in the frequencyor severity of adverse experiences as compared to the recipients of other vaccines.Which tells us nothing, really. Imagine McDonalds touting their Big Macs as being nomore lethal than the Whopper.This is exactly what the pharmaceutical company has done heretheyve avoided thereal question about adverse reactions to vaccinations by announcing that their vaccinecauses no more adverse reactions thanother vaccines. But make no mistake aboutit adverse reactions occurred in both groups.Lets take a close look at the package inserts of various drug companies and thevaccines they manufacture. More importantly, lets look at how the pharmaceuticalcompanies manipulate safety results.In a randomized, double-blind US clinical trial, ActHIB vaccine was givenconcomitantly with DTP to more than 5,000 infants, and hepatitis B vaccine wasgiven with DTP to a similar number. In this large study, deaths due to suddeninfant death syndrome (SIDS) and other causes were observed, but were notdifferent in the two groups. In the first forty-eight hours following immunization,two definite and three possible seizures were observed after ActHIB vaccine andDTP in comparison with none after hepatitis B vaccine and DTP.(2)In order for us to know how safe the HIB vaccine is, the vaccine should have beencompared to a placebo. Only then would we know how safe the vaccine truly is. But inorder to muddy the results, not only did they not compare the HIB vaccine to a placebo,but they combined the HIB vaccine with another vaccine, and then tested it against twoother combined vaccines. Imagine a drug company testing the safety of infant Tylenolby mixing it with another drug and then comparing it to a mixture of two other drugs.How would we ever be able to tell whether Tylenol is safe to give to our children?In the pivotal, randomized, multicenter study, 882 infants were assigned in a3:1 ratio to receive either COMVAX or PedvaxHIB plus RECOMBIVAX HB atseparate injection sites at 2, 4, and 1215 months of age. Children may havealso received routine pediatric immunizations. The children were monitoreddaily for five days after each injection for injection-site and systemic adverseexperiences. During this time, adverse experiences in infants who receivedCOMVAX were generally similar in type and frequency to those observed ininfants who received PedvaxHIB plus RECOMBIVAX HB.(3)In this study, Merck figured it would be best to compare its hepatitis B vaccine to amixture of two other vaccines. Why would they do this? Because if a single vaccine iscompared to a mixture of vaccines, the likelihood of adverse reactions in the mixtureof vaccine group is likely to be higher, therefore making the hepatitis B vaccine lookrelatively safer. This is manipulation at its best.In earlier studies with the vaccine grown in primary monkey kidney cells,transient local reactions at the site of injection were observed. Erythema,induration and pain occurred in 3.2%, 1% and 13%, respectively, of vaccineeswithin 48 hours post-vaccination. Temperatures of 39C (102F) were reportedin 38% of vaccinees. Other symptoms included irritability, sleepiness, fussiness,and crying. Because IPV was given in a different site but concurrently withdiphtheria and tetanus toxoids and pertussis vaccine adsorbed (DTP), thesesystemic reactions could not be attributed to a specific vaccine. However, thesesystemic reactions were comparable in frequency and severity to that reportedfor DTP given alone without IPV. Although no causal relationship has beenestablished, deaths have occurred in temporal association after vaccinationof infants with IPV.(4)It is interesting to know that the vaccine grows in monkey kidney cells. I wonder whatimpact this has on our children. In this study, the pharmaceutical company tells us thatthe experienced side effects cant be attributed to the polio vaccines, as it was tested bymixing the polio vaccine and then comparing it to the mixture of two other vaccines. Thisis simply beyond words.All the package inserts can be accessed by going to: http://www.vaccinesafety.edu/package_inserts.htm.In order to show how ridiculously vaccine safety studies are designed, here is acomparison: I want to find out whether eating huge quantities of Hershey kisses canlead to a bellyache. What I should do is get two groups of large sizes together and giveone group large amounts of Hershey kisses and the other group a placebo. If there aresignificantly more bellyaches in the Hershey kiss group, I can confidently say that it isntsafe to eat large quantities of Hershey kisses. Instead, I randomly sample two largegroups and give one group large quantities of Hershey kisses and the other group largequantities of gummy bears or, perhaps, as some study designs by the pharmaceuticalindustry suggest, the placebo group receives large quantities of gummy bears and icecream at the same time. Now I have belly aches in both groups (as we all know eatingtoo much chocolate or gummy bears isnt good), however, because I have an equalamount of reactions in both groups, I argue that it is therefore safe to eat large amountsof Hershey kisses, as there are not significantly more bellyaches in the Hershey kissgroup.Most middle school students are familiar with the design of a cause and effect study.The pharmaceutical companies are getting around ethically and fairly designed studiesby claiming that it would be unethical to withhold a lifesaving medical intervention suchas vaccines. This despite the fact that short term studies never included a true placeboand vaccinated children have never been compared to non-vaccinated children in long term studies.As you now are familiar with faulty research designs falsely concluding vaccines aresafe for your children and protect your children from illness you may want to questionthe entire notion of vaccination. Many parents to vaccinated and non-vaccinatedchildren will attest to the fact that the non-vaccinated child claims superior health tothe vaccinated child. If large and correctly designed studies were conducted it is likelythat pediatricians, health officials, government and pharmaceutical companies wouldderive at the same conclusion. This of course would expose them and therefore thosechoosing to vaccinate their children will have to continue to rely on studies proving apre-determined outcome.You are cordially invited to join us for the Vaccine Injury Awareness Event. This is anonline event to celebrate our vaccine awareness community, lend a voice to vaccineinjured children, celebrate those working hard to inform the public of vaccine dangersand win great prizes. During the event you are encouraged to ask questions or provideinformation.To join the event simply click on the link below:*** This article is copyrighted. Before re-publishing the article contact the owner and creatorof this material at: [emailprotected]