I am so livid!!! Tonight I had to take myself and my two children (vaxx injured 3 year old and vaxx free 8 week old) to the hospital for upper respiratory infections. Turns out my 8 week old has pneumonia. The doctor wanted to give her an injection of antibiotics (cefotaxime) to combat the intense strain that caused her pneumonia as it is a fast moving bacteria. I had no problem with this but told them that the only way I will allow it to be injected i...s if I see the vials, read them, and watch it mixed and drawn into the syringe. The doctor had no problem with this but I had a nurse there with 4 fully vaxxed kids who was super pushy about vaccines, even though I told her me and my kids have the MTHFR mutation and that we can easily die if vaccinated (easiest way to get docs to understand and back off, usually works and yes we do indeed have the mutation so it isn't a lie) the pushy nurse didn't care, she said I should do a delayed schedule then I told her it wasn't happening. She went to get the antibiotics for my daughter and when she came back she had a pre filled syringe with a really long needle and told me it was the antibiotic... I told her she wasn't injecting it into my babe because I didn't see her draw it up. She argued and I told her I didn't trust her and to get the hell out. The doctor came back in and asked me about the syringe while holding up the one she brought in and another empty one with a shorter needle (the proper size for the antibiotics is the short needle)... I told her the long one was the one the nurse brought in... the doctor informed me it was the Hep B shot... !!! I lost it and pointed at the pushy nurse and accused her loudly and outright of trying to murder my baby (boy did that draw some attention and turn heads) the doctor calmed me down and assured me this was NOT their normal protocol and that the nurse would be severely punished. HR came down and talked to me and ordered the nurse to be docked half a weeks pay and on probation (she isn't allowed near kids or anyone with needles without supervision anymore) and she could very well lose her job pending a discipline board hearing. The hospital was livid she tried that and so was I. It's a good thing I questioned it or I could have lost my baby today. This pisses me off to no end!!! I just had to share and warn you all. Be paranoid, be pushy, be suspicious and stand up for yourself and your kids when visiting the ER. #vaxxed #science #rfkcommission #wearevaxxed #pollytommey