Due to the success of immunization, some diseases are no longer perceived as a threat. Certain groups have even questioned the utility of vaccination in spite of its proven success in controlling disease. In recent years, a number of web sites providing unbalanced, misleading and alarming vaccine safety information have been established, which can lead to undue fears, particularly among parents and patients. Acknowledging the above-mentioned issues and urged by governments, key non-governmental organizations and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), WHO initiated, in 2003, the Vaccine Safety Net Project (VSN).The mission of the Vaccine Safety Net is to help internet users find reliable vaccine safety information tailored to their needs.A key player in the Project is the Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety (GACVS), established by WHO in 1999, to respond promptly, efficiently, and with scientific rigour to vaccine safety issues of potential global importance.At the outset of the Project, GACVS developed four categories of criteria for good information practices - regarding credibility, content, accessibility and design to which sites providing information on vaccine safety should adhere. WHO evaluates websites for their adherence to these criteria.Throughout 2015, the VSN Working Group (WG) revised and updated the website evaluation criteria under the oversight of the GACVS. The WG also took into account feedback from a cross section of VSN members. The criteria were finalized and endorsed by GACVS on 17 September 2015. During this process VSN also formalized the procedure and criteria for screening VSN candidates. The following websites are not eligible to join the VSN:WHO has prepared a companion document to assist VSN candidates and VSN members to adequately address each criterion. All of the criteria are listed in this document. The more complex criteria contain URLs pointing to examples and brief notes explaining what is expected.Translation into the remaining 5 UN languages (Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish) has been initiated for both the revised criteria and the companion document. The translations will be posted on the WHO website as they become available.WHO is pleased to evaluate new candidates for inclusion in the VSN on a rolling basis. Please note that commercial sites are not evaluated or listed as a matter of policy.The VSN evaluation process unfolds in the following manner:Re-evaluations are conducted every two years. The VSN evaluation process unfolds in the following manner:The Vaccine Safety Net consists of a diverse group of websites that provide vaccine safety information in various languages. Each of these websites has been evaluated by WHO and meets the GACVS criteria for good information practices.Sites that do not appear in the list may not yet have been reviewed, or they may be currently under review, or they may have been reviewed but do not meet the GACVS criteria for good information practices.