Infant and Child Vaccines: Vaccines You Need When Do Infants and Children Need Vaccines? By following the recommended vaccination schedule, you help protect your child against 15 vaccine-preventable diseases. If your child misses a dose or gets behind schedule, make sure they get the next dose as soon as possible. Ask your child's healthcare provider if your child is up to date with all recommended vaccines! Your child should receive 2 doses of chickenpox vaccine. The first dose should be given at 1215 months, and the second dose at 46 years. Your child should receive 5 doses of DTaP. The first dose should be given at 2 months, the second dose at 4 months, the third dose at 6 months, the fourth dose at 1518 months, and the fifth dose at 46 years. Your child should receive 34 doses of Hib vaccine (depending on the brand of vaccine). The first dose should be given at 2 months, the second dose at 4 months, the third dose at 6 months (if needed), and the last dose at 1215 months. Your child should receive 2 doses of hepatitis A vaccine. The first dose should be given at age 1 year and the second 6-18 months later. Your child should receive 3 doses of hepatitis B vaccine. The first dose should be given at birth, the second dose at 12 months, and the third dose at 6-18 months. Sometimes children receive 4 doses of hepatitis B vaccine if they are receiving a combination vaccine. Every person, beginning at age 6 months and continuing throughout their lifetime, should receive yearly vaccination against influenza in the fall or winter. Vaccination is the most effective step you can take to be protected from this serious disease. Children under the age of 9 years may need 2 doses. Talk to your child's healthcare provider to find out if your child needs more than 1 dose. Your child should receive 2 doses of MMR vaccine. The first dose should be given at 1215 months, and the second dose at 46 years. There are two different kinds of meningococcal vaccine. Meningococcal conjugate vaccine (MenACWY) is recommended for infants and children with certain health conditions. Meningococcal B vaccine (MenB) is recommended for children as young as 10 years with certain health conditions. Talk with your healthcare provider to find out if your child needs either of these vaccines. Two doses of MenACWY vaccine are recommended for all children starting at age 11 years. Your child should receive 4 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV). The first dose is given at 2 months, the second dose at 4 months, the third at 6 months, and the fourth at 1215 months. Some children need an additional dose of pneumococcal vaccine. Check with your healthcare provider to see if your child needs extra protection against pneumococcal disease. Your child should receive 4 doses of polio vaccine (IPV). The first dose is given at 2 months, the second dose at 4 months, the third dose at 618 months, and the fourth dose at 46 years. Your child needs 23 doses of rotavirus vaccine (RV), depending on the brand of vaccine. The first dose is given at 2 months, the second dose at 4 months, and the third dose (if needed) at 6 months. Talk to your child's healthcare provider to find out when your child needs to receive a dose of Tdap vaccine. Usually, the first dose is given at age 1112 years. Some children who have fallen behind on their vaccinations will need a dose at age 710 years.Getting immunized is a lifelong, life-protecting job. Talk with your healthcare provider about which vaccines your child needs and when they should be vaccinated. For more information, check the recommended immunization schedules: Two-page guide about vaccines and the diseases they prevent Enter your child's birthdate for a complete list of recommended immunizations.