Antigens - Protein cells or cell envelopes from bacteria and viruses Adjuvants - Chemicals that affect immune response Other - Various precipitants, flocculants, pH buffers, adsorbers, preservatives and other chemicals. Some are known as 'excipients' Provocative statements by a lead researcher in the development of the HPV vaccine can be found Judicial Watch's coverage of Gardasil can be found A pointed dissection of Gardasil's shortcomings is located More information and analysis on Gardasil can be found here Provocative statements by a lead researcher in the development of the HPV vaccine can be found here Judicial Watch's coverage of Gardasil can be found here A pointed dissection of Gardasil's shortcomings is located hereVaccines are the foundation of pediatric medicine.Safety testing on the-relationship of vaccines hasbeen done.The vaccines on the schedule have never been tested together.Neither the CDC nor FDA canthat the current schedule is safe.Vaccine ingredients basically fit into three groups:Not counting the antigens, here are common vaccine ingredients Causes neuron death. Aluminum is extraordinarily toxic when found with mercury. It plays a role in neurodegenerative diseases (Alzheimer's, Autism, Parkinson's, seizures, comas, others), blood disease, bone disease, and other serious conditions. Aluminum has no known benefit in the human body.Alters protein soluability. Suspected gastrointestinal or liver toxicant, neurotoxicant, respiratory toxicant. Irritates eyes, skin and respiratory system. Not tested for safety when injected. Likely to elevate level of ammonia when metabolized.An antifungal. Immediate allergic reactions can include fever, shaking, chills, hypotension, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, headache, dyspnea, and tachypnea. Serious skin reaction at site of injection may occur. Damage to liver, kidney, and heart can also occur.Calf fetus, chick embryo, chick kidney, chicken egg, cow heart, dog kidney, duck egg, guinea pig embryo, horse blood, monkey kidney, monkey lung, mouse blood, pig blood, rabbit brain, sheep blood and others. These are used in various vaccine production lines. Residues are not completely purified out of the final packaged product. Contamination can introduce new pathogens.Allergic reactions can range from mild to life threatening (anaphylaxis). Depletes glutathione. Can affect RNA and DNA activity. Side effects can include damage to kidneys and hearing loss. Listed antibiotics include Chlortetracycline, Dihydrostreptomycin, Gentamicin, Neomycin, Polymyxin B, and Streptomycin. Chlortetracycline appears to be excitotoxic (it fluoresces depending upon Ca2+ level see discussions and widespread use of the phenomena). excitotoxic , and synergistically toxic . Suspected endocrine toxicant Carcinogenic . Also a suspected gastrointestinal, liver, respiratory, skin and sense organ toxicant.Cytotoxic; detergents cause cells to leak or explode by weakening their walls. This catastrophically mimics the membrane attack complex (MAC) please read here to understand why this overlooked event can be particularly harmful.(or 10) andtypically contain traces of the toxicants ethylene oxide, dioxane, C9 phenols, or glycol ether. causes cell death and symptoms such as burning, redness, and swelling. It has been shown to weaken the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) and subsequently activate seizures. It is also known to promote tumor growth. It demonstrates synergistic toxicity notably with Amphotericin B , the antifungal listed above.has been observed to promote tumor growth in the throat, pancreas, colon and other tissues. By increasing cell permeability it also increases drug uptake showing that exposed cells become more vulnerable to toxic insult. Increases permeability of cells and mitochondria Increases pertussis toxin production; effect on toxicants in live humans has not been explored.Genetically modified viral, bacterial, yeast, and animal DNA. Can be incorporated into the recipient's DNA and cause unknown genetic mutations.Generally listed asor, these chemicals are similar to detergents in their ability to increase cell permeability, damage, and bursting.After injection they can rapidly metabolize into sorbitol and ethylene oxide which is much more toxic than the original chemical. When Polysorbate 80 breaks down there are 20 moles of ethylene oxide for every mole of sorbitol.These polysorbates have been shown to cause dangerous, sometimes fatal effects, when given through a needle. Changes in heart function can occur immediately. The blood-brain-barrier (BBB) can be weakened and penetrated, followed by seizures and even death. Anaphylactic and other reactions can occur. Infants are particularly susceptible (some math analysis here ). These polysorbates also demonstrate synergistic toxicity with a range of chemicals ( here and here ) including lindane, thalidomide even Polymyxin B , an antibiotic listed above. Very toxic . Causes cell growth inhibition, mutation, and death ( here and here ).Well-characterized toxicant . Carcinogenic; linked to leukemia, brain, colon, and lymphatic cancer. Gastrointestinal, liver, immune system, nerve, reproductive system, and respiratory poison. Excitotoxic . May be listed as (or hidden in) amino acids, asparagine, casamino acid, gelatin, hydrolyzed porcine gelatin, L-histidine, yeast extract, yeast protein. Also as monosodium glutamate, monosodium L-glutamate, glutamate, glutamic acid, potassium glutamate. In free form these have neurotoxic, mutagenic, teratogenic and reproductive effects . Reactions can range from mild to severe. Reaction times range from immediate to weeks later. Toxic ; developmental, immune, reproductive, respiratory, skin or sense organ. See here also. Glutaraldehyde exposure causes amino acid, extracellular proteins and cell surfaces to bind to each other. Teratogenic . See here to cross-reference. Also known as cetrimonium bromide Many aborted fetuses have been used in the development of 'cell lines' for the mass production of vaccines. Some amount of these 'immortalized' cells are present in the final packaged product.Examples include MRC-5 ( here here ), WI-38 ( here here ), RA27/3 ( here , also note the RA27/3 strain of rubella virus was observed to induce brain cell death), WI-26 VA4 ( here ), HEK-293 ( here ), and IMR-90 ( here here ).PER.C6 is a newer cell line developed by Crucell and licensed by Merck. According to this document (see page 91, line 14), the fetus was healthy and normal when killed at 18 weeks. The mother decided to abort because she was unsure who the father was. At the outset PER.C6 was started for the sole purpose of vaccine development. This 2005 patent reads on line 0224, "Human embryonic retinoblast (HER) cells were isolated from the eyes of aborted fetuses of 18 and 21 weeks of age." (The patent is prefaced by this 2001 application assigned to Crucell). This research illustrates how the PER.C6 cell line is being promoted for use in flu, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, rabies, cancer, and other vaccines.Synthetic form of cortisol. Widely recognized as a major stress hormone, it also can disrupt fetal development and endocrine function, affect immune function, increase oxidative stress, and suppress adrenal function. It is synergistically toxic with dioxin where it has been shown to increase the incidence of cleft palate. It may also have a contributing effect in the onset of "metabolic syndrome".An iron donor that can disrupt iron metabolism, impair immune function, and increase oxidative damage.Added to growth culture during vaccine production. Can induce allergy to lactalbumin and to milk in general. May trigger an easier formation of amyloid fibrils associated with neurodegenerative diseases. Accelerates cell growth synergistically with yeast. Displays other various effects on immune system including altered blood clotting time (prothrombin time), altered enzyme secretion, increased phagocytic activity, and enhanced tumor growth. Hydrolysis creates free glutamine making this ingredient another source of excitotoxin.These control pH within a specific vaccine formula, but downstream effects on body fluids and tissues after injection have not been thoroughly researched. Local (microdomain) concentrations of Ca2+, Na+, and K+ ions can be altered once the buffers are no longer confined to the vaccine. Neurons are highly sensitive to slight changes in pH.is excitotoxic and may harbor mercury is a strong blood anticoagulant that converts Ca2+ into calcium citrate, a process that increases absorption of aluminum ( this this ) and lead ( this this ) and contributes to excitotoxicity. It is a byproduct of citric acid manufacturing so may also harbor mercury depending on its source.(aka baking soda) is a salt consisting of the Na+ ion and the bicarbonate HCO3- anion. At a cellular level this pair is critical in regulating pH, especially in the brain and central nervous system where sodium-bicarbonate (NBC) transport has been shown to govern the function of neuron and glial cells, the production of myelin, and protection against excitotoxicity. People with immature or damaged nervous systems (infants, small children, people suffering toxic insult) are most at risk from the effects of free NaHCO3 received by injection (clues here ).(aka Borax ) is neurotoxic and not meant for internal use. Infants are particularly susceptible especially with repeated exposure. Symptoms can be immediate but generally appear hours or days later. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, flushed skin, changes in respiration/temperature/pulse, hyperactivity, CNS depression, mental confusion, lethargy, seizures, shock, metabolic acidosis, vascular collapse, and death. At the cellular level it interferes with DNA, RNA, and enzymes and causes cell death. Details here here , and here (read the full record).contain the element phosphorus. Phosphorus is an important component of all body tissues, plays a role in bone development, supports calcium metabolism, is a buffer for acid-base equilibrium, and is an element in various enzyme systems. Buffers containing phosphorus have the ability to affect various metabolic processes and can trigger or intensify excitotoxicity. There could be some precipitation of calcium phosphate in soft tissue (calcification). Overall these phosphate buffer agents appear less problematic than other ingredients, but they can still add stress to the system when administered. This example shows how exposure from the levels in a vaccine are of similar magnitude to what has shown harm in infants. Effects may be subtle and unobserved, however the timing and location of exposure can have an effect on other events. The elderly, young children, and patients with poor kidney function are at increased risk.Also known as Ethylene Glycol Monophenyl Ether. Various modes of toxicity including neuro, reproductive, and developmental.Toxic at all levels. See ILO-CIS MSDS and PubMed for overviews.An endocrine disruptor Also known as caustic soda and lye. Corrosive to all body tissue, damage commences immediately. Indication that under certain conditions a lower concentration causes greater effect than higher concentration ( hormesis ). Depending on the source , it may be contaminated with mercury.Plays a vital step in the 'polyol pathway'. The sudden injection of extra sorbitol can ruin the equilibrium of enzymes that regulate the conversion of glucose to fructose in a process associated with the onset of diabetes and its complications.Further, the polyol pathway is involved with a complex network of metabolic activities; disruption leads to a cascade of problems (citations here here and here ) such as mitochondrial failure, cell apoptosis (cell death), and DNA fragmentation.In general, sorbitol induces cell hyperosmotic stress resulting in phosphorylation (uptake of phosphorus into cell) an important on/off switch regulating enzymes and signaling networks.This government record prominently states under Drug Warnings that sorbitol is Disrupts immune function when injected directly into blood.Neurotoxic, mutagen , reproductive toxicant, carcinogen. Has an affinity for the brain, gut, liver, bone marrow and kidneys. Symptoms of mercury toxicity match those of autism. Start here for a toxicity profile. Here is a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). Note that thimerosal is extremely toxic by all routes of administration. There is no safe level of exposure.Here are a few more sources of information about vaccine ingredients other than the antigens:It is frequently repeated in news articles and other media that 'the flu' causes at least 36,000 deaths each year in the U.S.Sometimes a number as high as 70,000 is quoted.This is a myth A more accurate number is 140 , with more than 100 of those deaths in people at least 75 years old.But the total may be even less.Flu symptoms vs. FluMist side effects Want to know more? Click here Here is an astonishing bit of science.Researchers wanted to investigate why people seem to have more heart problems in the first weeks after an acute inflammatory event.What did they use to induce inflammation in the healthy male human volunteers?A flu shot.What did they discover?Cardiovascular function can be abnormal for at least two weeks after getting a flu shot.The CDC claims human papilloma viruses ( HPV ) alter cells, ultimately triggering cancers of the cervix and genitalia.HPV is not the only potential source for these cancers. Validating the actual cause of these cancers is difficult.The only way to detect the presence of HPV in women is through a special DNA test.Only a small number of women will ever acquire cervical cancer traceable to HPV.Regular Pap testing remains the best means for identifying cervical cancer regardless of origin.There are over 100 HPV strains.Approximately 30 of them are transmitted sexually.Incircumstances, 10 of theseprecipitate cancer.Gardasil targets 4 viruses presumed to cause 70% of these rare cancer cases.The vaccine hasto actually prevent cancer.The vaccine does not prevent the transfer of sexually transmitted diseases (STD).Most women who get HPV clear it from their systems naturally.Gardasil vaccine is injected 3 times over a 6 month period.Along with other chemicals contained in the vaccine, recipients will receive a total of 675 g aluminum , 150 g polysorbate 80 , and 105 g sodium borate Each individual dose of Gardasil contains 225 g aluminum.An 11-year old female in the 50th percentile weighs 37 kg.Unit conversion yieldsThere is no safety standard for injected aluminum.However, using the National Secondary Drinking Water standard for aluminum of 0.05 mg/L (50 ppb) shows that the child's toxic exposure to aluminum isover that limit.But the effect will be worse because exposure by injection is more severe than by ingestion.Using the 5 ppb threshold listed under Warnings in this insert for vitamin K injections puts aluminum exposure from a single dose of Gardasil atover that limit.This exposure will happen 3 times during 6 months.The burden will be significantly worse when other vaccines are taken into consideration.This early document analyzes adverse events associated with Gardasil as recorded in the VAERS database. Lowlights includeIt is important to note that during clinical trials of Gardasil more than 90% of the 'placebo' subjects received anThis obscures the true rate of adverse experiences because aluminum is toxic Using the toxic placebo during trials makes Gardasil appear to be safer than it really is.Gardasil increases the incidence of fever not by 16%, but more like 1400%.Gardasil increases the rate of vomiting not by 25%, but more like 1500%.Even though the trials were manipulated to generate more favorable outcomes, results still showed Gardasil injection caused adverse events in a majority of people.Readers should be especially cautious when interpreting Merck's outcomes for events such as pregnancy-related medical problems and birth defects.By May 11, 2007, of the 42 women who received Gardasil while pregnant, 18 experienced side effects ranging from spontaneous abortion to fetal abnormalities.The toxicity of aluminum is proven.Non-aluminum based adjuvants are (or will be) used in some vaccines.These are different but not necessarily better. For exampleTypically made with a combination of squalene polysorbate 80 , and sorbitan trioleate.It is shown to be neurotoxic (with notable targeting of Schwann cells, destruction of myelin sheaths, and induction of fibroblasts), genotoxic, cytotoxic, carcinogenic (notably lymphoid cancer), and to induce autoimmune disorders (such as lupus and arthritis). patented approach for using liposomes and isolated nucleic acid molecules to boost immune reactions to a level similar to Freund's Adjuvant ( FA ).FA is extremely toxic and illegal for use in humans.The newer approach claims to avoid the unwanted side effects of FA.The patent claims the approach can elicit systemic immune responses that are anti-viral, anti-tumor, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, anti-parasitical, anti-allergy and anti-inflammatory while at the same time increasing NK cell activity and interferon production.It remains to be seen how such strong activity can occur without negative side effects stemming from interactions with host DNA and cell membranes.This is all relatively new, but there is evidence that cationic lipids can be toxic under variable conditions that may not be anticipated or controllable when at work in the human body.Similar to cationic lipids in some regards but based on saponins which are another form of detergent Can autism or other illnesses be related to the MMR vaccine?No way is often repeated.But yes, here is how.DDT, benzene hexachloride (BHC), lead, and arsenic represent the dominant pesticides in use during the last major polio epidemic.These pesticides contaminated food at dosage levels far above FDA approval.They persist in the environment as neurotoxics.The harm they cause matches the symptoms described for 'polio'.Their use directly correlates with the incidence of polio before 1965.Long-range historical data shows that vaccines are not responsible for the decline of death rates from infectious disease.Explanation by Greg Beattie begins here and fortified by Ian Sinclair here Rusty nails do not cause tetanus Rusty nails contaminated with animal manureif the manure had tetanus spores in itother conditions are just right.Those special conditions rarely occur together:Getting stuck by a thumb tack, pricked by a rose, scraped on the pavement, etc. these do not cause tetanus either.It is routine for tetanus vaccine to be given any time puncture wounds are treated, even though the presence or absence of tetanus pathogens are never confirmed and giving the vaccine at the time of injury provides no protection.There is no proof tetanus vaccines prevent tetanus.However, the vaccines still contain mercury which always has a toxic affect.Further reading can start here and here Here is the FDA's list of currently licensed vaccines.Package inserts for most vaccines can be accessed from this single page If you do choose to vaccinate, consider the vaccine schedule found on the last page of this document.Contrast that schedule with the CDCs 2010 immunization schedule. Then look at the 1983 schedule.Did you know there is an adult vaccination schedule?Have a pet that gets vaccinations? Here is a relevant article.Back to the big picture.Chemical exposure from vaccines combines with other exposures to increase toxic body burden Vaccination can be the toxic tipping point for a person, especially a child because s/he is more vulnerable due to smaller size and incomplete physical development.