When I ask for a nickel-free earring because I noticed that nickel causes a rash and inflammation on my ear, no one hysterically accuses me of being "anti-earring".When you are evaluating the messages here, which you must do for the sake of your child's health, think about this:--98% of people who want to get thimerasol out of vaccines are NOT "Anti-Vaccine" they want vaccines to be safer--And yet, you will notice that there are hysterical straw men arguments made accusing people who want safer vaccines to be 'anti-vaccine'.Start there. Why would ANYONE slam the parent of an autistic or brain-injured child and misrepresent their story and their wish unless they had an either religious fervor about vaccines or a financial interest or a desparate wish to hide the truth? If they are really concerned that people will stop vaccinating if they learn that vaccines have dangerous ingredients, then why not join us in making vaccines safer? There is no explanation for their rabid denial that poisons in vaccines are not a good idea, and their continual misrepresenation of this. Excpet a desparate wish to avoid blame or financial loss. Or simply a desparate wish to be correct. But what motivates parents of vaccine injured children and environmentalists like RFK Jr? Common sense and dozens of studies you can find in his book. And a wish to never see another babbling child anywhere in the world, become silent, as so many parents of mercury -poisoned have. It's a poison. Its in vaccines. Get it out! Enough said!!!!--Read the arguments of those who realize that poisons are not a good idea in vaccines, and that some children are in fact harmed by them. These folks, despite sufferieng greatly due to a vaccine-injured child, do not generally get hysterical. They quote science--as RFK Jr does . They are polite despiite being attacked and misrepresented. They are motivated by an ethical desire to prevent other families from suffering unecessarily as they have. And they do not misrpresent the argument of others. They say "Make Vaccines Safer". Why is that such a dangerous concept? "I want safer highways" does not equal "Anti-Highways" "I want organic tomatoes" does not equal "Anti-Tomatoes". Saying "My child reacted to peanut butter" does not mean you hate peanut butter. WHich side is trying to hysterically shut down all debate? The side that does not have the truth on its side. Vaccines contain dangerous ingredients. There is no excuse for this. And so, those who shout down people who want to make them safer, have nothing to support them but bullying and cruelty. They trot out attacks against Jenny McCarthy--whose son had SEIZURES immediately after vaccines--and yet is not "anti vaccine" but campainged for SAFER GREEN Vaccines (if you don't believe me google it.) They say that Dr. Andrew Wakefield started the debate, because they want to remind other doctors of what will happen to them if they speak their truth, but it was a group of brilliant scientific Moms who made the connection between adding more and more doses of vaccines with mercury increased the autism rate. . Think about who is saying what, think about how RFK Jr's book has fact after fact after fact after study after study, and all they have is ridicule and misrepresentation.. Read the facts. Read them and weep. And then lets' stop injecting pregnant women and babies with mercury. Let's stop. This is crazy. It has to stop.I want to add one more thought:I know that so many people, like the trolls, the media and their minions, don't give a flying blank about what happened to our children, and don't want to believe it, and are happy to pretend we are crazy to say that neurotoxins are neurotoxins--because they only happened to hurt OUR children who can't excrete the mercury and aluminum very well. Presumably their children are fine--though I would submit that it hurts everyone, just as lead does. It's just a matter of degree.But what about the fact that every time people, old or young, get a flu shot, that 25 mcg of mercury is either released in to the sewage system if they happen to be a good excretor, to poison fish and wildlife, or realeased into the groundwater when the person dies and get buried, or gets released in the air if they die and get cremated? And what about all those toxic diapers they get to change if their child happens to be an excetor. . they end up in the landfill, but they get exposed to all that --well---toxic crap. No wonder the babies get such horrible diaper rash. . . And it goes to the landfill in diapers if they have paper ones, and if they are trying to be environmentally correct with cloth diapers, it goes back in the water. . . HOW CAN THIS BE OKAY WITH ANYONE? DUH. WAKE UP. We are allowing a single lazy industry to poison us inside and out.Wanted to add this:Just wanted to point out this govt site to those who think vaccines are harmless:http://www.hrsa.gov/vaccinecompensation/vaccinetable.html