Have you or a loved one suffered from a severe reaction or debilitating side effect that began shortly after a vaccination? Several life-altering conditions have been linked to common vaccines. If diagnosed, you may be eligible for compensation through the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program.This program is designed specifically to provide funds for individuals who have been injured by a vaccine. There is a small tax charged for each vaccine (75 cents) and the money collected is put into a fund. The fund, which currently has over 3 billion dollars, is maintained by the federal government. It is our job to apply for those funds on behalf of clients who have been injured by a vaccine.It is important to understand that, in applying for the funds, we arent suing the doctor or the manufacturer of the drug; we are working to prove that our clients injuries meet the criteria for compensation from the fund.We recommend that you contact a vaccine attorney to make sure that your claim is handled in a timely manner. The statute of limitations for making a claim is three years from the onset of symptoms.Nancy Meyers began practicing law in North Carolina in 1996. Her background in the medical field gives her a unique and exceptional perspective in dealing with injured clients and their families. She is also admitted to the US Court of Federal Claims, allowing her to represent clients who have been injured by vaccines. With years of experience handling vaccine injury cases, Nancy has secured millions of dollars in recoveries for clients from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program. If youd like to speak with Nancy regarding the work we do here and what you can expect, please contact us. We look forward to partnering with you on your case.When my husband received a routine flu shot, we had no idea that our lives were about to change forever. He was diagnosed with a severe and permanent form of GBS shortly after the vaccination. Although he now lives at home with me and our young son, he is dependent upon 24-hour care. Nancy Meyers helped us petition for the funds required for this intensive medical care, as well as pain and suffering. We dont know where wed be without the team at Ward Black Law.As you might expect, in order to qualify for funds, your situation must meet a few requirements. The video belowcan provide you with your next steps.You have to file your claim on time. For claims of injury, you must file your claim within three years of the onset of symptoms. If the vaccine resulted in death, the claim must be filed within two years of the persons death. Your injury or condition must have lasted more than six months or you must have had a hospital admission for your vaccine injury. Your vaccine must be one of the vaccines covered by the program. There is a specific listing of the vaccines covered by the Program called the Vaccine Injury Table. You can find more about this section in the vaccine injury section above. The program covers the most routinely administered vaccines. Your condition must have started fairly soon after you received your vaccination. Typically, the conditions caused by vaccines start developing in the days and weeks after the patient receives the vaccine. If medical records show that you developed symptoms after receiving your vaccine and particularly if your physicians remark in your records that your condition began as a result of your vaccination, then your claim is much more likely to be accepted for settlement.If you feel like your case may meet all of these requirements, then please contact us so that we can discuss the specifics of your situation in more detail.Think again. All attorney fees and related costs are paid separately by the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program and do not reduce our clients settlement. Win or lose, you will not be responsible for legal fees.Ward Black Law is located in Greensboro NC and helps vaccine injury victims throughout the U.S. We can partner with you to apply for compensation from the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program. This program was created to compensate victims for past and future medical needs, lost wages, and pain and suffering in a swift and flexible manner.