EDITOR'S NOTE: This article about vaccine dangers is an opinion piece and reflects the opinions of the author. Whenever I spend time studying the vaccine dangers issue, I feel like I'm at the edge of a great waterfall. I feel as if I might get swept over the edge by just the sheer flow and volume of things. It's like being close to something powerful and dangerous. I can just imagine someone unfamiliar with these issues coming face to face with the evidence and scientific studies involved and comparing them to the information put out by the pharmaceutical industry and medical/governmental agencies. They might feel like Alice felt when she went down the rabbit hole in Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865). Did You Know? The term "mad as a hatter" will forever be linked to the madcap milliner in Lewis Carroll's classic children's book, Alice in Wonderland. But few actually know that the true origin of the saying relates to a disease peculiar to the hat making industry in the 1800s. A mercury solution was commonly used during the process of turning fur into felt, which caused the hatters to breathe in the fumes of this highly toxic metal, a situation exacerbated by the poor ventilation in most of the workshops. This led in turn to an accumulation of mercury in the workers' bodies, resulting in symptoms such as trembling (known as "hatters' shakes"), loss of coordination, slurred speech, loosening of teeth, memory loss, depression, irritability and anxiety -- "The Mad Hatter Syndrome." The phrase is still used today to describe the effects of mercury poisoning, albeit from other sources. One of the most famous phrases from the story is "Down the Rabbit-Hole," used for going on an adventure into the unknown. This analogy has also been used in the more recent film, The Matrix. As the International Movie Database declares: "Thomas A. Anderson is a man living two lives. By day he is an average computer programmer and by night a malevolent hacker known as Neo. Neo has always questioned his reality but the truth is far beyond his imagination." Trying to sort out the truth from the lies regarding vaccine dangers is very much like a journey into not only the unknown, but into a land filled with very strange creatures indeed. Alice was prompted to utter one of her most memorable lines when the Cheshire Cat she had been talking to disappears, leaving only his smile: "Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin," thought Alice; "but a grin without a cat! It's the most curious thing I ever saw in all my life!" Unfortunately, it's all too much like what we find when we seek out the truth about vaccine safely -- you are left with smiles, but no facts. It's like being in a world where everything is upside down and backwards, where things are so crazy you don't know how long you'll be able to stand it. "Who Are YOU!" Says the Hookah-Smoking Caterpillar. There is also the encounter Alice has with the hookah-smoking Caterpillar where he starts off asking her, "Who are YOU!" She answers shyly, "I--I hardly know, sir, just at present -- at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then." Caterpillar takes her on a circular reasoning conversation that lands her right back at his original question without giving her any answers whatsoever. Sounds like what happens when you talk with those who promote vaccines as safe and effective. She finally musters up the courage and challenges Caterpillar with "I think you ought to tell me who YOU are, first." To which the caterpillar simply replies "Why?" You usually don't get real answers from those in the industry. It's mostly doublespeak, fear mongering, and rhetoric, if not outright lies. Why? It's mostly doublespeak, fear mongering, and rhetoric, if not outright lies. Why? You get lots of statements but no supportive evidence. Referring to the American Dental Association's answer to the question "Are fillings hazardous to the patient?" Dr. Hal Huggins, DDS, in his book "Solving the MS Mystery" explains the cover-up. (And by the way, the element dental materials and vaccines have in common is mercury!) [The ADA says:] "The answer is an unqualified NO ...the amount of mercury emitted from an amalgam is undetectable..." No evidence? There is plenty of evidence [of] the color of the emperor's new clothes, but there is a power that wants to ignore the evidence of toxicity. Why? Liability. Immense liability. Unfathomable liability. Who wouldn't want this to go away if they knew that half of the people in the "civilized" world would wish you great bodily harm if they could get their hands on you? You too might develop "Lie-ability". from Solving the MS Mystery: Help, Hope and Recovery by Hal A. Huggins, DDS, MS There is a difference between what is happening with amalgam and what happens with vaccines. The US government has protected the vaccine industry from liability! So they lie just to sell more vaccines and make more money. "Off with Her Head!" Bellows the Queen of Hearts. Here we see the Queen of Hearts scream her most famous line, "Off with her head!" It's so very similar to the reaction of the medical establishment, government and health officials, mainstream media, and even well-meaning friends and family when someone questions their vaccination dogma and suggests that we should take a closer look at vaccine dangers. Alice's famous phrase, "curiouser and curiouser," reflects my feelings as I listen to the fear mongers and their fearful line of doom and gloom regarding the pandemic they may very well be crafting. It's a land where the truth is whatever the Queen says it is, and the Cheshire Cat confirms to Alice, "We're all mad here." This pretty much sums up the state of those who promote and try to force vaccination on those who choose to forgo its purported benefits. Where do we go from here? Well, in our case, it's on a journey to find and sort out what the truth really is regarding vaccines, their safety (really their lack of safety), vaccine dangers, and to try to make a difference for the sake of our children and grandchildren and their children. 'None so blind as those that won't see. A single effort of the will was sufficient to exclude from his view whatever he judged hostile to his immediate purpose. --E. Fitzgerald Polonius, 1852 The greatest threat of childhood diseases lies in the dangerous and ineffectual efforts made to prevent them through mass immunization....There is no convincing scientific evidence that mass inoculations can be credited with eliminating any childhood disease. --Dr Robert Mendelsohn, M.D. Vaccine dangers are real and the concerns and questions of parents need to be addressed and answered fully. It's the only way for us to be able to make informed and responsible decisions. There are many who are fighting just to have the vaccine schedule changed and others, due to inherent vaccine dangers, are suggesting that only those who want vaccines get them. Whatever your position, please share your experiences with us. Historical Facts Exposing The Dangers And Ineffectiveness Of Vaccines The Six Minutes and Twenty-two Seconds You Take to Watch this Video Might Change Your Future, and Your Children's Future. Flu vaccine safety studies show that flu vaccines are unsafe and ineffective. What Other Visitors Have Said Click below to see contributions from other visitors to this page... Freedom To Choose Revoked in the Case Of Parents VS GovernmentWhen my second child was born I read a book called "The Poison Needle" by Eleanor McBean, and, even though I was a practicing Licensed Practical Nurse, Near Death Experiences: Two Cases This story cannot really be told by a third party, but unfortunately that is what I am. Two cases - a middle school girl, who went to school with my daughter, Environmental Causes of AutismSeems that environmental causes of autism is the only plausible explanation for the explosive increase in the disease. I just listened to an interview Polio Vaccine Contaminated with Unknown Viruses?I am from the Baby Boomer generation and nearly all of us were given the live virus polio vaccine. Now I've heard it said that there was a virus in that My Doctor Pressured Me to VaccinateIt's just natural to trust your doctor. They speak well and act very concerned about your child. They are normally friendly. It's easy to trust them. When Go to Ineffectiveness Of Vaccines page from Vaccine Dangers page Go to Natural Health Remedies and Strategies home page from Vaccine Dangers page