Every day, people in the United States are being injured and killed by vaccines, and those numbers are increasing. This is a fact that is not in dispute, as the Department of Justices quarterly report on vaccine injuries and deaths clearly demonstrates.And yet, the governments official public statement about vaccines is that they are safe and effective, and should be mandated for all people. Any opinion or presentation of facts to contradict their position is vigorously suppressed and censored in the mainstream media all in the name of public health for the greater good.The American public is largely unaware that there is a vaccine courtknown as theNational Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (NVICP).This program was started as a result of a law passed in 1986 that gave pharmaceutical companies total legal immunity from being sued due to injuries and deaths resulting from vaccines. If you or a family member is injured or dies from vaccines, you must now sue the federal government in this special vaccine court. Many cases are litigated for years before a settlement is reached.Once every 3 monthsthe Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines meets, and the Department of Justice issues a report of cases settled for vaccine injuries and deaths. As far as I know, Health Impact News is the only media source that publishes these reports each quarter. Past reports can be found here.The most recent report was issued onJune 3, 2016 which covered the period from 2/16/16 to 5/15/16 had 206 cases adjudicated. 116 of them were listed in the report (see below), specifying the vaccine, the injury or death,and the amount of time the case was pending before settlement.85 of the 116 cases settled were for injuries and deaths due to the flu vaccine, making the flu vaccine the most dangerous vaccine in the U.S., harming and killing more people than all the other vaccines put together.In November of 2014 the Government Accounting Office (GAO) issued the first reporton Americas Vaccine Court, known asthe National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program (NVICP), in almost 15 years. Most citizens of the United States are not even aware that there is something called the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program, and that if you suffer harm or death due to a vaccine, that you cannot sue the manufacturer of the vaccine, but you must sue the federal government and try to obtain compensation fromtheVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund,which is funded by taxes paid on vaccines. The amount of money currently sitting in this trust fund is over $3.6 BILLION, as of September 30, 2015.As I noted above, Congress gave the pharmaceutical companies immunity against lawsuits for injuries or deaths resulting in vaccines in 1986. Prior to this time, there were so many lawsuits pending against pharmaceutical companies for injuries and deaths due to vaccines, that the pharmaceutical industry basically blackmailed congress and told them that if they did not grant them legal immunity against the liabilities of vaccines, that they would quit making them. These vaccine products cannot survive in a free market, they are so bad.TheNovember 2014 GAO report criticized the government for not making the public more aware that theNational Vaccine Injury Compensation Programexists, and that there are funds available for vaccine injuries. Therefore, the settlements represented by vaccine injuries and deaths included in the DOJ report probably represent a small fraction of the actual vaccine injuries and deathsoccurringin America today.The U.S. government keeps a database of reports documenting vaccine injuries and deaths calledThe Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). The problem is that very few medical officials ever report vaccine injuries or deaths, either because they are not trained to recognize them, or due to pressure within their profession to not report them. To admit that vaccines do cause harm is professional suicide for most doctors and medical professionals.Hence, the quarterly DOJ report on vaccine cases only represents a tiny fraction of the actual cases that exist.One place we can get a glimpse of the amount of vaccine harm that is being caused in the U.S. today is to look at emergency room visits. As one can see in the report above, with most of the settlements being cases of harm caused by the flu vaccine,Guillain-Barr Syndrome (GBS) is the most common injury suffered from the flu shot.GBS is a debilitating disease thatattacks a persons own immune system and damages their nerve cells, causing muscle weakness and sometimes paralysis. It is very similar to the symptoms one may see with polio.If you are taken to the emergency room with signs of GBS during flu season, chances are one of the first questions the doctors will ask you is if you have received the flu shot recently. GBS is also listed as a side effect of the flu shot in the package insert.An emergency room nurse published his experience in dealing with the volume of vaccine injuries he was seeing, and how reluctant other medical personnel were in reporting these injuries:As an E.R. nurse, I have seen the cover up. Where do you think kids go when they have a vaccine reaction? I cannot even begin to guess how many times over the years I have seen vaccine reactions come through my E.R. Without any exaggeration, it has to be counted in the hundreds. Sometimes it seemed like it was one or two cases in a single shift, every shift, for weeks. Then I would get a lull, and I wouldnt catch one for a week or two, then Id catch another case per night for a couple weeks. This was common. Once, I was training a nursing student, about to graduate, on their E.R. experience rotation in nursing school. This student and I floated up to triage to cover the triage nurse for a break. I was quizzing them on what to ask and look for as a triage nurse on pediatric kids that came through. I made a point about asking about immunizations right out the gates. The student was puzzled, and asked why, and I told the student because we see vaccine reactions every day and its their job to catch it, alert the doctor and the parents, and report it to VAERS. Some higher power apparently smiled on my attempt to open the eyes of another nurse I guess, because not even ten minutes later, a woman brought her child up to the counter. Sudden onset super high fever and lethargy. I asked if the child was up to date on vaccination. The mother replied he had them just a few hours ago. I glanced at the student, who looked shocked and looked back at me in disbelief. I nodded, told them to remember this, and then took the mom and her child to finish the triage in back. When I was done I came back and sat down with the student, and asked what he learned that night so far. The first response: What I was told about vaccines wasnt true. I couldnt have said it better. That student is going to go on to be like me, advocating for his patients with his eyes wide open. The cases almost always presented similarly, and often no one else connected it. The child comes in with either a fever approaching 105, or seizures, or lethargy/cant wake up, or sudden overwhelming sickness, screaming that wont stop, spasms, GI inclusion, etc. And one of the first questions I would ask as triage nurse, was, are they current on their vaccinations? Its a safe question that nobody sees coming, and nobody understands the true impact of. Parents (and co-workers) usually just think Im trying to rule out the vaccine preventable diseases, when in fact, I am looking to see how recently they were vaccinated to determine if this is a vaccine reaction. Too often I heard a parent say something akin to Yes they are current, the pediatrician caught up their vaccines this morning during their check up, and the pediatrician said they were in perfect health! If I had a dollar for every time Id heard that, I could fly to Europe for free. But heres the more disturbing part. For all the cases Ive seen, I have NEVER seen any medical provider report them to VAERS. I have filed VAERS reports. But I am the ONLY nurse I have EVER met that files VAERS reports. Mind you, I have served in multiple hospitals across multiple states, alongside probably well over a hundred doctors and probably 300-400+ nurses. Ive worked in big hospitals (San Francisco Bay Area Metro 40 bed ER, Las Vegas NV Metro 44 bed ER) and small hospitals (Rural access 2 bed ER, remote community 4 bed ER) and everything in between. When I say NEVER, I mean NEVER. I have even made a point of sitting in the most prominent spot at the nurses station filling out a VAERS report to make sure as many people saw me doing it as possible to generate the expected what are you doing responses to get that dialog going with people. And in every case, if a nurse approached me, their response was Ive never done that or I didnt know we could do that or, worse What is VAERS? which was actually the most common response. The response from doctors? Silence. Absolute total refusal to engage in discussion or to even acknowledge what I was doing or what VAERS was. The big take away from that? I am PROOF of that. (Read the full blog post here.)One of medical conditions resulting fromvaccine injuries you will not find in the quarterly DOJ reports is autism. When theVaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund was set up in 1988, autism was the most prevalent vaccine injury brought before the vaccine court, mostly from the MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccine.It soon became apparent that the trust fund, funded through taxes the public pays on vaccines, would not be sufficient to litigate all the claims for autism as a vaccine injury.By March 1, 2010, 13,330 cases hadbeen filed in the special vaccine court, with 5,617 representingautism cases. Of those 13,330 cases filed up to March 1, 2010, only2,409 werecompensated. The rest were dismissed, but there were5,933 cases still pending, and most of those were claims for vaccine-induced autism, mostly due to either the MMR vaccine, or vaccines containing thimerosal (mercury).So how did the federal government and the vaccine court handle this?Simple.They took 3 test cases that they said represented all of them, and litigated against those claims. Their own appointed judges then ruled in each casethat vaccines were not the cause of their autism. Then they told everyone else that their autism could not have been caused by vaccines, and that they would pay no damages for all those hundreds of thousands of children suffering with autism. This was all part of what is calledThe Omnibus Autism Proceeding.So if you have a child today injured by vaccines and suffering with autism, you cannot sue the federal government in vaccine court, as their official position is that vaccines do not cause autism.The film VAXXED has caused quite a controversy in film festivals and theaters around the U.S. this year. It documents fraud within the CDC over the MMR vaccine and autism cover-up. It documents the story of the CDC scientist whistleblower Dr. William Thompson, and producer Del Bigtree claims this story is bigger than Watergate. The film is showing to packed theaters across the country, as the public is hungry for this kind of information that the mainstream media censors.As can clearly be seen by the governments own vaccine statistics, vaccines are both dangerous and deadly. There are many doctors across the U.S. who understand this, and do not adhere to the extremist vaccine positions, that ALLvaccines are good, for ALL people, ALL the time, by force if necessary.The vaccine debate is not a debate between extremist positions, but a debate that in reality looks at the merit of each vaccine, and the impact of the vaccine schedule with so many vaccines being given together. For more information, see: In the video above, Dr. Mark Geier explains the fraud behind the flu vaccine. Dr. Geier is NOT anti-vaccine. He is an M.D. and has a Ph.D. in genetics. He spent 10 years working at the National Institute of Health, and was a professor at Johns Hopkins University as a geneticist. He is also the author of over 150 peer-reviewed publications.He worked on vaccine safety and efficacy for more than 30 years. He was one of four scientists that worked to replace the DTP vaccine, a vaccine that caused every child to become sick with a high fever at the time of vaccination, with the DTaP vaccine, which is a more purified vaccine and causes illness due to fever in only 3% of those vaccinated.In the video above, he explains that the flu shot causesGuillain-Barr Syndrome, and that the flu shot is not very effective in preventing the flu. He also explains that the CDC does not follow the law for vaccines in requiring long-term safety testing for the influenza vaccine likethey do with other vaccines, as it is impossible to test a vaccine that changes every year. So the flu vaccine is basically an experimental vaccine that they want to give out to 300 million people every year. There are also no studies showing the safety of giving the flu vaccine to the same person every single year. However, Dr. Geier points out that the CDC is in the business of distributing flu vaccines, because they represent 300 million doses per year, whereas all the childhood vaccines together only number 20 million.Dr. Geier goes on to explain that flu is the wrong thing to vaccinate against because you have to keep re-vaccinating against it every year, unlike childhood infectious diseases, such as smallpox, that are only vaccinated for once. Dr. Geier points out how ridiculous it is spend billions of dollars on a vaccine that might, at its best, save about 50 lives a year, when there are far more serious problems causing death that are more worthy of that kind of expenditure.If you want to know the true risks one takes when receiving a vaccine, do not depend on the pharmaceutical industry, government health officials, or the mainstream media.Do your own research. Read the package inserts of vaccines and see how many people were harmed or killed during the vaccinetrials. Read the known side effects and warnings that are published. Find a doctor or health care practioner that respects your right to informed consent, and has not been brainwashed by marketing and propaganda from the pharmaceutical industry and government. Find a practioner who does not fear losing their job if they speak the truth. Your life and the lives of those dependent upon you are at risk.One of the biggest myths being propagated in the compliant mainstream media today is that doctors are either pro-vaccine or anti-vaccine, and that the anti-vaccine doctors are all quacks.However, nothing could be further from the truth in the vaccine debate. Doctors are not unified at all on their positions regarding the science of vaccines, nor are they unified in the position of removing informed consent to a medical procedure like vaccines.The two most extreme positions are those doctors who are 100% against vaccines and do not administer them at all, and those doctors that believe that ALL vaccines are safe and effective for ALL people, ALL the time, by force if necessary.Very few doctors fall into either of these two extremist positions, and yet it is the extreme pro-vaccine position that is presented by the U.S. Government and mainstream media as being the dominant position of the medical field.In between these two extreme views, however, is where the vast majority of doctors practicing today would probably categorize their position. Many doctors who consider themselves pro-vaccine, for example, do not believe that every single vaccine is appropriate for every single individual.Many doctors recommend a delayed vaccine schedule for some patients, and not always the recommended one-size-fits-all CDC childhood schedule. Other doctors choose to recommend vaccines based on the actual science and merit of each vaccine, recommending some, while determining that others are not worth the risk for children, such as the suspect seasonal flu shot.These doctors who do not hold extreme positions would be opposed to government-mandated vaccinations and the removal of all parental exemptions.In this eBook, I am going to summarize the many doctors today who do not take the most extremist pro-vaccine position, which is probably not held by very many doctors at all, in spite of what the pharmaceutical industry, the federal government, and the mainstream media would like the public to believe.