In October 2015, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) approved the Recommended Adult Immunization Schedule: United States, 2016. This schedule summarizes ACIP recommendations for the use of vaccines routinely recommended for adults in 2 figures (Figures 1 and 2 ), footnotes for each vaccine, and a table that describes primary contraindications and precautions for commonly used vaccines for adults ( Table ). Details on these updates and information on other vaccines recommended for adults can be found at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/schedules . The full ACIP recommendations for each vaccine are not included in the schedule owing to space limitations but can be found at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/acip-recs/index.html . The 2016 adult immunization schedule was reviewed and approved by the American College of Physicians, American Academy of Family Physicians, American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and American College of Nurse-Midwives. The text in the Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) indication bar was revised from 1 or 3 doses to 3 doses, post-HSCT [hemapoietic stem cell transplant] recipients only as these adults are the only group for whom a 3-dose series of Hib vaccination is recommended; for adults in other groups for whom Hib vaccination is recommended, the text in the indication bar was revised to 1 dose.The footnotes in the 2016 schedule for meningococcal vaccination include new recommendations on the use of MenB vaccine, in addition to the information on the use of MenACWY and MPSV4 vaccines. Certain groups of persons known to be at increased risk for meningococcal disease are recommended to be routinely vaccinated with a MenACWY vaccine, which protects against meningococcal serogroups A, C, W, and Y ( 7 ). Although the epidemiology for meningococcal serogroup B is different from serogroups A, C, W, and Y, persons who are at increased risk for serogroup A, C, W, and Y meningococcal disease may also be at increased risk for serogroup B meningococcal disease. The footnotes for meningococcal vaccination in the 2016 schedule include the following general information: MenACWY vaccine is preferred over MPSV4 vaccine for adults with meningococcal vaccine indications who are aged 55 years, and for adults aged 56 years who were vaccinated previously with MenACWY vaccine and are recommended for revaccination or for whom multiple doses of vaccine are anticipated; MPSV4 vaccine is preferred for adults aged 56 years who have not received MenACWY vaccine previously and who require a single dose only (for example, persons at risk because of an outbreak). MenB vaccines are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use in persons aged 10 through 25 years; however, because there is no theoretical difference in safety for persons aged >25 years compared with those aged 10 through 25 years, MenB vaccine is recommended by the ACIP for routine use in persons aged 10 years who are at increased risk for serogroup B meningococcal disease. Persons who travel to or live in countries in which meningococcal disease is hyperendemic or epidemic: administer a single dose of MenACWY vaccine and revaccinate with MenACWY vaccine every 5 years if they remain at increased risk for infection; MenB vaccine is not recommended because meningococcal disease in these countries is generally not caused by serogroup B. A complete HPV vaccination series consists of 3 doses. The second dose should be administered 4 to 8 weeks (minimum interval of 4 weeks) after the first dose; the third dose should be administered 24 weeks after the first dose and 16 weeks after the second dose (minimum interval of 12 weeks). HPV vaccines are not recommended for use in pregnant women. However, pregnancy testing is not needed before vaccination. If a woman is found to be pregnant after initiating the HPV vaccination series, no intervention is needed; the remainder of the 3-dose series should be delayed until completion or termination of pregnancy.Lastly, a row for MenACWY/MPSV4 vaccine and a separate row for MenB vaccine replace the single row for meningococcal vaccine in the 2015 schedule table of contraindications and precautions to commonly used vaccines in adults. The text Severe allergic reaction (e.g., anaphylaxis) after a previous dose or to a vaccine component was added as a contraindication and Moderate or severe acute illness with or without fever was added as a precaution for both MenACWY/MPSV4 and MenB rows.The adult immunization schedule describes certain conditions that might cause altered immunocompetence, such as anatomical or functional asplenia and the use of immunosuppressive drugs, as indications or contraindications for specific vaccines. It also describes certain high-risk conditions for which specific vaccines are recommended. For example, before all adults were recommended to receive yearly influenza vaccinea recommendation since the 20102011 influenza seasonthe ACIP recommended that adults who are at increased risk for severe complications from influenza or at higher risk for influenza-related outpatient, emergency department, or hospital visits receive annual influenza vaccine, including those with chronic pulmonary (including asthma) or cardiovascular (except isolated hypertension), renal, hepatic, neurologic, hematologic, or metabolic disorders (including diabetes mellitus), and HIV infection ( 8 ). The ACIP also recommends that women who are or will be pregnant during the influenza season be vaccinated to protect themselves and their newborns ( 5 8 ). In addition, tetanusdiphtheriaacellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccination is recommended for pregnant women during each pregnancy, preferably during 27 to 36 weeks' gestation, regardless of her history of receiving tetanusdiphtheria (Td) or Tdap vaccines ( 9 ). Thus, obstetrician-gynecologists, pulmonologists, nephrologists, cardiologists, and other clinical specialists who provide care for these at-risk adult populations have the responsibility, as do their primary care colleagues, to assess for and recommend vaccines their patients need, and either administer the needed vaccines or refer them to a place where they can get the recommended vaccines. Recently, the authors of 2 published meta-analyses described an association between influenza vaccination and lower risk for cardiovascular events among patients with existing cardiovascular disease. They concluded that physicians should be aware of the need to offer influenza vaccination to patients with cardiovascular disease and that cardiologists should offer vaccination to their patients as a simple once-annual protective therapy to reduce cardiovascular events ( 10 11 ).Despite the long-standing ACIP recommendations and continued emphasis on vaccinating adults who are at increased risk for complications from influenza, influenza vaccination coverage rates among high-risk adults have remained low ( 12 13 ). The overall influenza vaccination coverage for the 20122013 season among adults 18 through 64 years of age with at least 1 high-risk condition was only 49.5% and those with at least 2 high-risk conditions was only 59.5% ( 13 ). Influenza vaccination rates were low among those with lung disease (46.2%), heart disease (50.5%), diabetes (58.0%), renal disease (62.5%), and cancer (56.4%). In 20122013, out of an estimated 40 million adults 18 through 64 years of age with medical conditions that increase the risk for severe illness from influenza, approximately 90% of those who were unvaccinated may have missed at least 1 potential opportunity to receive the influenza vaccine through their health care provider ( 13 ). Coverage rates for other vaccines indicated for adults 18 through 64 years of age who have high-risk conditions are likewise low ( 14 ). For adults 19 years of age with chronic liver conditions, only 13.3% reported that they received hepatitis A vaccinations and 34.0% reported that they received hepatitis B vaccinations. Hepatitis B vaccination coverage among adults aged 19 through 59 years and 60 years with diabetes was 26.3% and 13.9%, respectively.Several tools are available to assist primary care and specialty health care providers in assessing for and recommending needed vaccines for their adult patients ( 1719 ). Health care providers also have at their disposal proven methods for improving vaccination rates, such as the use of standing orders, patient reminder and recall notices, provider feedback, and immunization information systems (commonly known as vaccine registries, which are available in most states) ( 20 ). In addition, electronic health record management systems can include adult immunization and clinical decision-support systems to prompt providers to assess their patients' immunization needs and recommend appropriate vaccinations. Because only 31% of family physicians and 20% of general internists reported stocking all vaccines routinely recommended for adults ( 15 ), many providers will need to refer some of their patients to other providers for vaccination. Online tools, such as Vaccine Finder ( www.vaccines.gov/more_info/features/healthmapvaccinefinder.html ), can be useful for providers to identify vaccination service providers in their area.Primary care providers and specialty providers, such as obstetrician-gynecologists, cardiologists, and other clinical specialists, have the responsibility to help ensure that their patients are protected from vaccine-preventable diseases and their sequelae. The use of proven, existing strategies can lead to improvements in immunization coverage rates and reduced illness and disability from vaccine-preventable diseases among adults in the United States.Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children, adolescents, and adults are developed by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). ACIP is chartered as a federal advisory committee to provide expert external advice and guidance to the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on use of vaccines and related agents for the control of vaccine-preventable diseases in the civilian population of the United States. Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in children and adolescents are harmonized to the greatest extent possible with recommendations made by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP), and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG). Recommendations for routine use of vaccines in adults are harmonized with recommendations of AAFP, ACOG, and the American College of Physicians (ACP). ACIP recommendations adopted by the CDC Director become agency guidelines on the date published in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR). Additional information on ACIP is available at www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip