The science is clear. For the majority of the population, vaccines are safe.No medication is safe for 100% of the population. What we know is that there are rare instances where vaccine-injury occurs, but for most people, vaccines are safe.All of the above quotes are things we hear repeatedly in the media. Yet, we know that in some cases, vaccines do cause autism, and other serious injuries, including death. The U.S. Government has awarded more than3 Billion Dollars to families of vaccine-injured children, including manychildren who developed autism after vaccination.For parents and prospective parents, a very relevant question is, What might make my child more likely to have a serious adverse reaction to vaccines? Every parent should be able to ask this question. It is a reasonable expectation that the government which mandates vaccines for 100% of children born in the U.S. would also be concerned about which children may be more likely to be harmed by such a mandate. Unfortunately (for us), the U.S. government agencies who are in charge of investigating this stuff just really couldnt give a ratsyou-know-whatabout whether or not your child might be more vulnerable to vaccine-injury. Thats why it is up to you to investigate prior to vaccination, and to make informed decisions about whether or not vaccines are advisable or safe for your particular child. Those decisions should be made based on your own family history.You should know that the U.S. government has decided that if your child happens to have certain genetic predispositions and/or environmental exposures, which make him or her more vulnerable to serious vaccine-injury (including autism and death), thats just your tough luck. Its survival of the fittest.In the 2004 publication, Immunization Safety Review: Vaccines and Autism from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) it is stated on pages 11-12 of the Executive Summary that research (funded by your tax dollars) is NOT TO PURSUEtheidentification of susceptible groups. The reason for this is because the government has made the decision that is is most important to protect the general public from infectious diseases. The government has also decided that it is most important to protect the vaccine-manufacturers, whohave been granted complete immunity from liability if their vaccines happen to kill or permanently injure your child.You might find it interesting (as I did) to know that the IOM issued their mandate DO NOT DO THE RESEARCH within a mere matter of months after Frank DeStefano delivered a presentation to the IOM about the findings of a particular study performed at The CDC, which showed an increased risk (236% increased risk) of autism to African-American males vaccinated with the MMR vaccine prior to 36 months of age. Sometime after that meeting and prior to when the paper went to publication, according to one of the principal authors of the study, the decision was made (under pressure, according to Dr. William Thompson) to eliminate the data that identified the increased risk, alter the study protocol, and publish the paper saying there was no increased risk. This whole episode is what has come to be known as The CDC Whistleblower Issue. Dr. William Thompson is The CDC Whistleblower and he issued an official statement through his attorney (who specializes in Whistleblower Law) on August 27, 2014, stating what happened, and also stating his regret about his participation in the fraud.As I have written previously, what people need to understand is that the elimination of data regarding increased risk of autism to African-American boys in metro Atlanta does not just affect African-American boys in metro Atlanta.Science is never settled. By definition, science is always evolving. The goal of scientific inquiry is NOT TO SHUT DOWN FURTHER INQUIRY.The goal of research is to open up further inquiry. When researchers FIND something, they are SUPPOSED to report it. They are also supposed to pursue and encourage others to pursue further research to determine:What does that mean, when it comes to your child?If the researchers involved in the 2004 DeStefano et al paper had reported their findings and if further research had been done as it should have been, we wouldhave seen studies looking at increased risk of autism from MMR administration in children living in the Midwest, and living in Appalachia, and living in Texas, California, Alaska, and New Jersey. We would have seen follow-up studies evaluating increased risk of autism from MMR in populations with a large percentage of Latino children, and Asian-American children, and maybe even Somali immigrant children in Minnesota. We should have also seen follow-up research investigating DTaP vaccines in these groups, and combinations of vaccines in these groups, and how things differ between groups who are vaccinated exactly according to the CDCs Childhood Vaccination Schedule, and among those who are not vaccinated at all, and among those who are partially, or selectively vaccinated.Thats what SHOULD have happened. But it didnt.I know. You might be thinking Im just a conspiracy theorist. After-all, many people refer to this is an anti-vaccine website.Dr. Healy had some very important things to say about the vaccine-autism question in a 2008 interview with Sharyl Attkisson, on CBS News. Watch the video:The take home message here is that YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE for your childs health care. You are also responsible if something happens to your child as a result of following The CDCs Childhood Vaccination Schedule. Vaccines are the only medication that our government recommends (mandates) for 100% of children, while simultaneously refusing to protect families if those vaccines cause serious injury or death. We are on our own.So It is important for us to know what factors may cause our children to be more vulnerable to vaccine-injury. Yesterdaymorning, I conducted an informal poll. At 7:00 (CST) I posted the following Facebook status:I have asked this question previously, and at that time I received 108 responses in a five-hour period.Since yesterday morning, I have received an additional 201 responses.Many of the respondents indicated they had the same predispositions as those I believe to be factors in my daughters vaccine-injury. Others left comments indicating they believed other factors were involved in their childrens vaccine-injuries. I collected everything.Here are the results, reported in order, from most frequently reported to least frequently reported:Other factors that were mentioned specifically by respondents included the following:So, there you have it.What does this mean?Well First of all, I have to say that there are some problems inherent in this informal poll. This is not a random sample. This data was collected from parents who are friends of mine (or friends of friends) on Facebook. These parents have children who have suffered vaccine-injury. They have likely been doing their research for a while, and they are more likely than the general population to respond to my request for data. This data has not been compared with data from families in the general population whose children have not suffered significant vaccine-injury, or who do not report their children as having suffered from significant vaccine-injury.You may choose to discount this information because it is not published in a respected peer-reviewed medical journal.You may choose to discount this information because it was collected via social media.You may choose to discount this information because you dont like me.Whatever your reason for discounting this information, please remember thisIts the best we got. Its all we have.The government will not collect this information and they will not report on what factors may increase your childs risk of serious vaccine injury. The researchers at the CDC have been instructed specifically, DO NOT LOOK.Are your kids and your future kids at increased risk?