This vaccine protects against pneumococcal (pronounced new-m'COCKL) infections, which mostly strike children under age 5 and can lead to some of the worst childhood diseases. Pneumococcal infections are one of the most common causes of death in the United States from a disease that's preventable with a vaccine.Before the vaccine, pneumococcal infections caused more than 700 cases of meningitis, 13,000 blood infections, and 5 million ear infections in children under 5 every year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC). The vaccine is effective in up to 90 percent of people who get it.The germs responsible for pneumococcal are bacteria called Streptococcus pneumoniae. They live in the mucous lining of the nose and in the back of the throat. And when they're plentiful enough, they can cause an infection in the respiratory tract, middle ear, or sinus cavities.Antibiotics such as penicillin can kill them, but up to 30 percent of the strains are resistant to antibiotics.Pneumococcal bacteria spread by close contact and through coughing and sneezing. Diseases including meningitis and pneumonia can crop up within days of infection.Symptoms of pneumococcal pneumonia usually include fever and chills with shaking or trembling, as well as chest pain, coughing, shortness of breath, rapid breathing, rapid heart rate, fatigue, and weakness. Nausea, vomiting, and headaches are also associated with pneumococcal pneumonia, but are less common.Pneumococcal bacteria also cause some of the most serious ear infections in children.The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) PCV13, or Prevnar 13, has been used since 2010 to protect against more strains of pneumococcal bacteria than the previous vaccine.This added protection is important because the old vaccine didn't protect against certain strains of bacteria that have become more common in recent years. According to the CDC, PCV13 offers protection against the strains of pneumococcal bacteria that most often cause severe pneumococcal infections in children.To track your child's immunizations, use BabyCenter's Immunization Scheduler.Children who have had a life-threatening allergic reaction to a previous PCV shot or to certain other vaccines should not get the PCV vaccine. If your child has had this type of severe reaction to any immunization, talk to her doctor about whether the PCV vaccine is advisable.Mildly ill children can be vaccinated. But if your child has a fever or a severe illness, such as pneumonia, wait until her health improves before taking her in for the vaccine. She'll be better able to handle the immunization when she's healthy.About half of vaccinated children become drowsy, have redness or discomfort at the site of the injection, and have loss of appetite. One in 3 children may have swelling at the injection site, 1 in 3 develop a mild fever, and 1 in 20 develop a high fever. Most children are fussy or irritable after the vaccination.Severe allergic reactions are rare but possible with any vaccine. See what our expert says about how to tell whether your child is having an adverse reaction.If your child has an adverse reaction to this or any other vaccine, talk to your child's doctor and report it to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System.