(Asignee: GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals, S.A. Rixensart,BE) Many vaccines which are currently available require a preservative to prevent deterioration. A frequently used preservative is thiomersal which is a mercury-containing compound. Some concerns have been raised about the use of mercury in vaccines, although commentators have stressed that the potential hazards of thiomersal-containing vaccines should not be overstated (Offit; P. A. JAMA Vol. 283; No:16). Nevertheless it would be advantageous to find new and potentially safer methods of preparation of vaccines to replace the use of thiomersal in the manufacturing process. There is thus a need to develop vaccines which are thiomersal-free, in particular hepatitis B vaccines.Potential Chronic Health Effects: CARCINOGENIC EFFECTS: Not available. MUTAGENIC EFFECTS: Not available. TERATOGENIC EFFECTS: Not available. DEVELOPMENTAL TOXICITY: Not available.In regard to the risk of adjuvant toxicity in children, the following should be noted: (i) children should not be viewed as small adults as their unique physiology makes them more vulnerable to toxic insults; (ii) in adult humans Al adjuvants can cause a variety of serious autoimmune and inflammatory conditions including those affecting the brain, yet children are routinely exposed to much higher amounts of Al from vaccines than adults; (iii) compelling evidence has underscored the tight connection between the development of the immune system and that of the brain. Thus, it appears plausible that disruptions of critical events in immune development may also play a role in the establishment of neurobehavioral disorders; (iv) the same immune system components that play key roles in brain development appear to be targeted for impairment by Al adjuvants. In summary, research data suggests that vaccines containing Al may be a contributing etiological factor in the increasing incidence of autism.These current data implicate Al (aluminum) injected in early postnatal life in some CNS alterations that may be relevant for a better understanding of the aetiology of ASD.Recent evidence suggests an important role for inflammation in the immune response to aluminum-adjuvanted vaccines.Recently, a new syndrome was introduced, autoimmune/inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants (ASIA), that includes postvaccination phenomena, macrophagic myofasciitis, Gulf War syndrome and siliconosis. This syndrome is characterized by nonspecific and specific manifestations of autoimmune disease. The main substances associated with ASIA are squalene (Gulf War syndrome), aluminum hydroxide (postvaccination phenomena, macrophagic myofasciitis) and silicone with siliconosis.The literature demonstrates clearly negative impacts of aluminum on the nervous system across the age span. In adults, aluminum exposure can lead to apparently age-related neurological deficits resembling Alzheimers and has been linked to this disease and to the Guamanian variant, ALSPDC.This Al-evoked phenomenon is coupled to diminished mitochondrial activity, anerobiosis, and the channeling of -ketoacids towards anti-oxidant defense. The resulting metabolic reconfiguration leads to fat accumulation and a reduction in ATP synthesis, characteristics that are common to numerous medical disorders. Hence, the ability of Al toxicity to create an oxidative environment promotes dysfunctional metabolic processes in astrocytes and hepatocytes. These molecular events triggered by Al-induced ROS production are the potential mediators of brain and liver disorders.It has recently been proposed that aluminum, commonly used in vaccines as an adjuvant, may be the most significant factor in adverse reactions, and, furthermore, that the nervous system is especially vulnerable to aluminum toxicity.Conclusion:Intensely itching subcutaneous nodules (vaccination granulomas) and contact allergy to aluminium may occur after primary vaccination with the two most commonly used DTP vaccines in Europe. The condition is probably underreported. Symptoms may last for at least 45years but eventually seem to subside.During the past year a new syndrome was introduced and termed ASIA, Autoimmune (Auto-inflammatory) Syndrome induced by Adjuvants.1This syndrome assembles a spectrum of immune-mediated diseases triggered by an adjuvant stimulus.24The use of medical adjuvants has become common practice and substances such as aluminum adjuvant are added to most human and animal vaccines, while the adjuvant silicone is extensively used for breast implants and cosmetic procedures. Furthermore, hidden adjuvants such as infectious material or house molds have also been associated with different immune mediated conditions.In summary, research evidence shows that increasing concerns about current vaccination practices may indeed be warranted. Because children may be most at risk of vaccine-induced complications, a rigorous evaluation of the vaccine-related adverse health impacts in the pediatric population is urgently needed.Further studies of aluminum in children are warranted and should be considered as part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Biomonitoring Project.