(NaturalNews) BREAKING: CDC whistleblower William Thompson has now gone public with a statement posted on the website of the law firm representing him, Morgan Verkamp LLC. (See the full statement reprinted below.)The statement opens with a blatant admission of scientific fraud at the CDC:The full letter was originally posted at this link which has now been removed. (See posted letter, below.) In the letter, Dr. Thompson confirms the fact that he had multiple phone conversations with Brian Hooker and that the CDC has not been honest about the risks associated with MMR vaccines.The letter then goes on to repeat the typical vaccine propaganda of our time: all vaccines are miracle medicine, the CDC is highly professional, there has been no retaliation against him and so on. Intelligent readers will of course take all these statements with a grain of salt, understanding just how much political and legal pressure has no doubt been exerted onto Dr. Thompson up to this point.The relevant portion of Dr. Thompson's statement is contained in the first paragraph. It is an, and the admission of this by William Thompson is an historic moment for our world.Here's a screen shot of the original statement posted by Dr. Thompson. Click here for the hi-res version Dr. William Thompson chose to release his public statement less than one day after Natural News published the second in a series of once-secret emails between Dr. Thompson and his CDC colleagues.The release of those emails may have been pivotal in Dr. Thompson's choice to go public with his own statement. The vaccine establishment, which immediately and predictably accused Natural News of fabricating the two emails, is now backpedaling as rapidly as possible with the full knowledge that Dr. Thompson's public statement. Natural News, in other words, was instrumental in breaking this historical story about medical fraud at the highest levels of the CDC. (Credit is also due to many other independent media organizations and alternative journalists who pounded this story from day one.)Those two emails are available here:February 2nd, 2004 letter to Dr. Julie Gerberding:October 18, 2002 letter to Melinda Wharton, Coleen Boyle and others, where William Thompson announces he is hiring his own lawyer and implies a CDC cover-up of a D.O.J. investigation:There are four astonishing realizations that now come to mind from Dr. Thompson's public statement:Firstly, this admission proves beyond any question that the reporting of this fraud by the alternative media has been factual and true. It also underscores the astonishing fact that the alternative media alone broke this story, pre-empting the New York Times, Washington Post and every Pulitzer-prize-winning journalist in the world. The tables have now turned. It is solely the alternative media which is now breaking most of the really important investigative stories of our time. Does this mean alternative media journalists will now be nominated for Pulitzer prizes? Don't hold your breath on that one...Secondly, it also proves that CDC scientists did in fact conspire to alter the study data in order to bury significant results linking the MMR vaccine to heightened autism risk in African-American children. This is now openly admitted by a key author of the 2004 study cited by the CDC as "proof" that vaccines are absolutely safe.Thirdly, it now demands that the 2004 study referenced in all this be. This is an open admission of scientific fraud. Any failure to retract the study will now only underline the depth of the fraud and the abandonment of scientific principles by the CDC and the science journal itself.Fourthly, all this also reveals thatwhose career and reputation have been destroyed by the very people who conspired to commit scientific fraud at the CDC. We must all now call upon the media to run headlines like, "Dr. Wakefield Vindicated: MMR Vaccine Fraud Confirmed."What's also very interesting about this statement by William Thompson is his implication that the CDC knowingly hides the truth about vaccine risks from the public. He says:There are three crucial points to understand here:#1) Vaccines ALWAYS come with risks.#2) The CDC has a moral obligation to communicate these risks to the public.#3) (Implied) The CDC has FAILED to communicate these risks to the public.I agree with all three of these points, by the way. That Dr. Thompson would feel these are so important to include in his one and only public statement on this matter underscores the importance of what he's trying to communicate. What Dr. Thompson is saying is that. And that's what I've also been saying all along.See, the modern scientific delusion about vaccines has been predicated on the belief that vaccines only offer benefits while imposing zero risks. This is the anti-science quackery which is brazenly repeated by the CDC, vaccine manufacturers, doctors and health organizations.A more honest analysis of vaccines would have to conclude that. Scientists can argue all day about the size of such risks, but no rational person can ever honestly say such risks are zero.And yet the position of the CDC has always been that vaccines are "magically safe" as if they possess magical powers that prohibit all harm. This position is ridiculous at every level, yet it is the official stance of the CDC.It is this ridiculous, quack science position which discredits the CDC and the entire vaccine industry. For vaccine promoters to lie to the public and say vaccines have "zero risk of harm" is to admit they are all quacks and liars. It would be far more believable and ethical to say something like, "For every 100,000 children who receive these vaccines, 250 will become autistic and 15 will die in a coma." (Numbers invented here for illustration purposes only. These are not actual numbers from any particular study, in case you were wondering.)If the CDC were honest with the public, then parents could makeabout what level of risk they wish to undergo. Is it worth vaccinating a child against measles if the risk of that child becoming autistic is 1 in 100,000? How about 1 in 1,000? What if it's actually more like 1 in 250?The public has never been allowed to know these numbers. And that's the point in all this. That's the smoking gun which has now been revealed, thanks almost entirely to the independent (alternative) media and our relentless dedication to real investigative journalism.There is no such thing as "absolute safety" in any medical procedure; not even in something as incredibly safe as therapeutic massage. But the sad fact that the CDC, the vaccine industry and the vaccine zealots have pushed the absurd delusion that vaccines are "absolutely safe" -- i.e. they present ZERO risk -- is an admission of scientific quackery (or scientific illiteracy).This is why the vaccine industry has lost the public relations war on vaccines: because. How do you know when the CDC is lying? When their lips are moving.The funny thing about all this is that here, as the editor of Natural News,If vaccines were honestly marketed with credible descriptions of their inherent risks, thereby allowing parents to make informed decisions about those risks, there would probably be very little resistance against them. (And if all the toxic preservatives and adjuvants were removed from vaccines, there might not be any resistance at all.)The CDC, through precisely the kind of scientific fraud Dr. Thompson has admitted to, has become its own worst enemy by actively deciding tofor decades through the deliberate commission of scientific fraud, pushing a quack science delusion which has now been shattered by one of its own scientists.Now we know the CDC is a cabal of liars and criminals, even if they are "professional" criminals as Dr. Thompson laments in his public statement when he says, "My colleagues and supervisors at the CDC have been entirely professional since this matter became public." Bank robbers and kidnappers can also be "professional," because just like the vaccine industry,Nothing personal!Personally, I want to thank Dr. Thompson for breaking the conspiracy of silence and going public with his open admission of scientific fraud at the CDC. I believe Dr. Thompson operates with a far higher ethical and moral standard than most of his colleagues, and I believe he is now operating in crisis mode to protect his own life while under the threat of professional persecution or worse.It is now a matter of public record that Dr. William Thompson and his colleagues at the CDC knowingly and willfully conspired to commit scientific fraud in order to hide from the public the truth about the dangers of MMR vaccines. This fact is now irrefutable and stands as a milestone in the history of corruption and criminality at the CDC.The fact that Dr. Thompson is still a "fan" of vaccines only brings more weight to his admission that vaccine fraud was committed at the CDC. If anything, Dr. Thompson has every reason to disclaim any such fraud ever took place. In fact, I half expected Dr. Thompson to come out with a carefully-engineered statement claiming he never talked to Brian Hooker, never wrote the emails we released and never committed any fraud at all.And yet, to his credit, he has honestly and openly admitted to the scientific fraud in which he participated. For that reason alone, I believe Dr. William Thompson should be commended for his honesty. At the same time, he should also beand asked a long series of additional questions about what really went on at the CDC.In preparation for that testimony, Dr. Thompson should, I believe, be grantedfor his role in committing the vaccine fraud we now know took place.I realize that some in the autism community might disagree with my view on this particular point. Some would say that Dr. Thompson should be charged with felony crimes and prosecuted by the government. Although I can very easily understand the anger and frustration that would lead many people to suggest such actions, I personally believe it is far more valuable for us all if Dr. Thompson is granted immunity and encouraged to testify under oath so that the true depth of the scientific fraud at the CDC can be made part of the official congressional record. If Dr. Thompson truly believes in CDC transparency as his letter suggests, he will be happy to testify before Congress.After all, Dr. Thompson is merely a small fish in a very large crime ring. The real ring leaders are right now getting away scot-free. They are the ones who need to be brought to justice and prosecuted in a court of law.August 27, 2014 Press Release, "Statement of William W. Thompson, Ph.D., Regarding the 2004 Article Examining the Possibility of a Relationship Between MMR Vaccine and Autism"FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE-AUGUST 27,2014My name is William Thompson. I am a Senior Scientist with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, where I have worked since 1998.I regret that my coauthors and I omitted statistically significant information in our 2004 article published in the journal Pediatrics. The omitted data suggested that African American males who received the MMR vaccine before age 36 months were at increased risk for autism. Decisions were made regarding which findings to report after the data were collected, and I believe that the final study protocol was not followed.I want to be absolutely clear that I believe vaccines have saved and continue to save countless lives. I would never suggest that any parent avoid vaccinating children of any race. Vaccines prevent serious diseases, and the risks associated with their administration are vastly outweighed by their individual and societal benefits.My concern has been the decision to omit relevant findings in a particular study for a particular sub group for a particular vaccine. There have always been recognized risks for vaccination and I believe it is the responsibility of the CDC to properly convey the risks associated with receipt of those vaccines.I have had many discussions with Dr. Brian Hooker over the last 10 months regarding studies the CDC has carried out regarding vaccines and neurodevelopmental outcomes including autism spectrum disorders. I share his beliefthat CDC decision-making and analyses should be transparent. I was not, however, aware that he was recording any of our conversations, nor was I given any choice regarding whether my name would be made public or my voice would be put on the Internet.I am grateful for the many supportive e-mails that I have received over the last several days.I will not be answering further questions at this time. I am providing information to Congressman William Posey, and of course will continue to cooperate with Congress. I have also offered to assist with reanalysis of the study data or development of further studies. For the time being, however, I am focused on my job and my family.Reasonable scientists can and do differ in their interpretation of information. I will do everything I can to assist any unbiased and objective scientists inside or outside the CDC to analyze data collected by the CDC or other public organizations for the purpose of understanding whether vaccines are associated with an increased risk of autism. There are still more questions than answers, and I appreciate that so many families are looking for answers from the scientific community.My colleagues and supervisors at the CDC have been entirely professional since this matter became public. In fact, I received a performance-based award after this story came out. I have experienced no pressure or retaliation and certainly was not escorted from the building, as some have stated.Dr. Thompson is represented by Frederick M. Morgan,Jr., Morgan Verkamp, LLC, Cincinnati, Ohio, www.morganverkamp.com