On its surface, the movie Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastropheappears to be a slickly produced scientific documentary with lots of charts and data about one of the most important issues of our time.The central premise of thefilmis that the countrys mandatory measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine when given to children under age 2 may be leading to anepidemic ofautism diagnoses.It contains heartbreaking footage of happy, laughing toddlerswho, their parents say, became profoundlydisabled almost overnight after receiving the shot. It explains the findings of a study that confirms the link and unearths recordings from a former Centers for Disease Control and Prevention scientistwho purportedly claimed the government quashedfindings of the connection.But what the movie doesnt get into is as compelling as what it doespresent. There are numerous facts, backstories and events that the filmmakers pretend didnt happen thatchallenge many of the main points of the film.Heres what you need to know to put Vaxxed into context:1) The most important thing to know is that the link between vaccines and autism has been debunked widely and repeatedly. Theoriginalstudy that raised the issue waspublished in 1998 in the journal the Lancet and involved 12 patients who, after receiving the MMR vaccine, suffered ill effects that appeared to be autism. While manyresearchers wereskeptical of the finding, panicked parents inboth Great Britain and the United States pushedvaccination rates down sharply.Outbreaks of the measles, mumps and rubellaon both sides of the Atlantic soon followed.In 2004, Sunday Times journalistBrian Deer reported serious ethical violations bythe 1998 paperslead author, gastroenterologist Andrew Wakefield. Deer accused Wakefield ofhaving beenpaid by a law firm that had been planning to sue vaccine manufacturers and of subjecting some of the children to unnecessary, invasive procedures for the study. Afterthe revelations, mostof the researchers named as co-authors in the study disavowed the findings and withdrew their names from the paper.In 2010, theLancets editorsretracted the paper. Three months later, Britains General Medical Councilrevoked Wakefields medical license.In 2011, theBritish medical journal the BMJ published a detailed investigation into the research, calling itan elaborate fraud by Wakefield and lamenting the harm it had caused and would continue to cause tothe public health.It's one thing to have a bad study, a study full of error, and for the authors then to admit that they made errors, BMJ editor-in-chief Fiona Godlee told CNN at the time. But in this case, we have a very different picture of what seems to be a deliberate attempt to create an impression that there was a link by falsifying the data.2)The director of Vaxxed and the main expert whoappearson camera isthat same Andrew Wakefield.3)Actor Robert De Niro, who has an autistic son, originally lobbied to putthe film on the schedule for theTribeca Film Festival in March. But several days later, he said he had a change of heart.My intent in screening this film was to provide an opportunity for conversation around an issue that is deeply personal to me and my family, he said in astatement. But after reviewing it over the past few days with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community, we do not believe it contributes to or furthers the discussion I had hoped for.[Robert De Niro accused of censorship after yanking anti-vaccine movie from film festival]4) One of the main figuresin the film, CDC scientist William Thompson, is heard only in voice recordings. Those recordings, the movie discloses, were of phone conversations Thompson had with another researcher who secretly recorded the calls. Oh, my God. I cannot believe we did what we did. But we did, Thompsonsays at one point, purportedly about omitting findings confirming a link between the MMR vaccineand autismfrom an official 2004 report.Thompson has remained silent on the matter, but theother researcher, biologist Brian Hooker,has released a statementsaying thatThompson would bepublishing a paper soon that shows no link between the MMR vaccine and autism in African American males after all.Hooker said he is suspect of any analysis coming from the CDC due to the historic nature of the agencys scientific misconduct and conflicts of interest specifically around any link between vaccines and autism. He also detailed his conversations with Thompson:5) While the issue of vaccines and autism still comes up regularly as it did when presidential contender Donald Trump mentioned his belief in the theoryin a debate last year most scientists consider the connectionbetween vaccines and autism to be discredited.Dozens of top journals including the New England Journal of Medicine, the Journal of Pediatric Infectious Diseases and the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders have published papers that looked into a possible link and found none.A study in JAMA in April 2015 was one of the largest; it involved an analysis of 96,000 children. The authors wrote thattheir findings indicate no harmful association between MMR vaccine receipt and [autism spectrum disorder]even among children already at higher risk.[The origins of Donald Trumps autism/vaccine theory and how it was completely debunked eons ago]6) Whileexperts still don't know what causes autism, it is thought to be a combination ofgenetic and environmental factors such as infections or exposure to certain chemicals that may lead to differences in the shape and structure of a childs brain. According to an estimate by the CDCpublished last year,1 in 45 (or 2.24 percent) of children age 3 to 17 may haveautism a steep rise over the past few decades.Researchers have theorized that part of the rise could be attributable to a greater awareness of the condition. The CDC said the most recent jump from 2011 to 2014 may havea very mundane reason behind it: a change in the questionnaire the agency uses to track cases.[Autism cases in U.S. jump to 1 in 45: Who gets the diagnosis, in 8 simple charts]7)Moviecritics have come out with very different takes on the film.The San Francisco Chronicles Mick LaSalleappeared to be moved by the footage and personal stories of the children and their parents. Of course, its possible that the children would have developed autism anyway, and that one event didnt cause the other. But the parents presented here are convinced otherwise, he wrote. While acknowledging that the film doesn't contain the whole story, LaSalle called it apassionate advocate for its viewpoint ... that makes for compelling viewing.Other reviewers werent so generous.The Washington PostsMichael OSullivan called it closer to horror film than documentary. StatsRebecca Robbins commented on the films paranoid tone. The AgesSarah Gill warned: Don't be fooled Wakefield's story is not the tale of a man wronged by powerful corporations or the medical establishment, which, in fact, closed ranks to protect him. Its the story of a physician who set out to cast doubt on vaccine safety before hed even gathered the evidence, and he did so not for the public good, but for private gain.IN DEPTH: Sean Parker, Silicon Valleys bad boy genius, wants to kick the *!$% out of cancerTheres a new sheriff in town in Silicon Valley the FDAResearchers: Medical errors now third leading cause of death in United StatesLike our Health & Wellness page onFacebookfor more science news about the ins and outs of the human body and mind, essays and advice. You cansign up herefor our newsletter.