"The greatest lie ever told is that vaccines are safe and effective." Dr. Len Horowitz D.M.D., M.A., M.P.H.Vaccines Information Section Stated Intention: To learn about the harm caused by vaccines so that you will not allow them to be administered to your children under any pretenses.Vaccines are mandated, this means that are not required by the law. It is important to research the exemptions in your state carefully.The video covers some of the material on this website.Medical Measures and the Decline of Mortality, John B. McKinlay, Sonja M. McKinlay, published in book, The Sociology of Health & Illness: Critical Perspectives, Peter ConradIf you see my cause of disease section, you will see how we blame too often microorganisms as being the culprit in diseases when they are likely part of a natural cycle, and not a cause, but an effect.Another excellent resource is Jim West's, Polio and DDT. Mr. West provides the shocking evidence that Polio was caused by DDT in milk.The point is that, when science is used as it is supposed to be used, in search for truth, then we can find the causes of many diseases. In the case of Polio, it was not the virus, but human poison that was the cause.Vaccines Are the Result of Numbess and InertiaVaccines and Koch's Postulates, do Viruses that are supposed to cause disease exist?What we call viruses is really poison Part 1What we call viruses is really poison Part 2Vaccine Adverse Event Defintion Too Narrow to be meaningful (incomplete)Here is a good summary of key points against vaccines.How to protect children from disease and make them strong and resilient.Documentary, Vaccination - The Hidden Truth (1998) on google video Contains excellent online audio documentary about vaccinations. scroll to bottom, the documentary is call VacReap, in 4 parts.Vaccines Exposed: A Hidden Crime Against Our Children, by me.Know Vaccines - A parent offers this vaccination information site because of the loss of his daughter to vaccine induced cancer. Vaccine Liberation Organization - Organization devoted to repealing mandatory vaccine laws. Whale Vaccines - One fathers investigations into Vaccinations, this is one source I used for quotes, it is very thorough. Vaccines Healing Arts - Studies on vaccine complications Think Twice About Vaccines - We offer an extensive selection of uncensored information on childhood shots and other immunizations. Medalters The VAERS database has been put online, you can see how real the adverse events are. Generation Rescue - Published vaccine studies.Vaccination: 100 Years of Orthodox Research Shows That Vaccines Represent a Medical Assault on the Immune System, by Viera Scheibner, Ph.D.Universal ImmunizationMedical Miracle or Masterful Mirage? by Raymond Obomsawin, Ph.D. Read free online at the above link or available from Health Action Network.The Sanctity of Human Blood : Vaccination is Not Immunization by Tim O'SheaHow To Raise a Healthy Child in Spite of Your Doctor, by Robert Mendelsohn, M.D.The Immunization Decision: A Guide For Parents, by Dr. Randall Neustaedter.Vaccinations and Immunization: Dangers, Delusions and Alternatives, by Leon Chaitow, N.D., D.O.Immunization: The Reality Behind The Myth, by Walene James.The Virus and the Vaccine: The True Story of a Cancer-Causing Monkey Virus, Contaminated Polio Vaccine, and the Millions of Americans Exposed, by Debbie Bookchin, Jim SchumacherLearn more information about fertility, a healthy pregnancy, a safe birth, and natural parenting.If you have enjoyed this website, then the published book which this website is based upon, Healing Our Children, is a must read. A vibrant and healthy child can be yours. Even your doctor or midwife do not know the vital information revealed in this book. Give your best to your children and future children...Published book Healing Our Children will teach you how to have happy and vibrant baby today. Feedback From Readers Who Have Nurtured Their Offspring with advice from Healing Our ChildrenThis truly is a book to heal our future generation of children! - Hally CuttnerRamiel Nagel's book "Healing Our Children", lovingly provides holistic perspectives on the many facets of parenting and family life. Through the guidance of this book we have become more aware and enlightened parents. Overall, this book exudes an energy of life and honesty. It is a refreshing addition to the run of the mill parenting guide. Thank you Rami! - Jamie Busch, New JerseyThis book is a treasure for new families, for all those who are planning on having children or already have young kids. - OlgaIn this book Rami explains the basics of how nutrition is linked to so many of these so-called "incurable" diseases. At the end of the day, there are no shortcuts. We do need to take full responsibility of raising our children properly. - Sandeep Agarwal