All information containing new andunprecedentedconclusionsbegins by being violently opposed by those who create the prior information and those who subscribe heavily to it. This is very much the case with the link between Autism Spectrum Disorder and vaccines; mainly the MMR vaccine and other thimerosal containing vaccines.It is clear that the stance from mainstream science is that there is no link between vaccines and autism. You can find more about that here. But for many people this does not dispel all concern. Dr. Hooker, PhD, PEsays that the recentU.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC)study on vaccines and autism isperhaps the most flawed and disingenuous studyhe has ever encountered.Given the number of first hand cases that make their rounds stating that children are immediately affected by certain vaccines and parents are noticing something is wrong suddenly with their child, it is easy to see why people are still concerned. In every vaccine and autism link article we have on CE, there are many comments from parents stating that they watched their child change within hours and days of getting certain vaccines. So is there truly reason to be concerned? Are we just paranoid? Or is there something we have not figured out completely yet?Regardless of the droves of faithful people hanging onto every word the CDC gives them about the safety of vaccines, I think it is incredibly important that we look at all of the information that truly exists and make our own educated decision. Many claim it is dangerous to question vaccines and I have been threatened on many occasions for writing about it, but it isnt going to take away the fact that people are being damaged by vaccines. That is a cold hard fact that every parent needs to know about before deciding to vaccinate their child.The truth is, there have been several court cases where families have been granted damage pay-outs due to what vaccines and their ingredients have done to their children. The cases are directly linked to autism and brain damage. UPDATE:I do feel that even if only a 51% majority in decision is needed, the cases are plaintiff vs. The Secretary of Human Services. If the statement that vaccines had no link to autism was completely factual, these people would not have a case against one entity that would surely have a lot of firepower around the issue. Regardless, their victory illustrates some important factors. In terms of the size of the cases, there are an estimated 5,000 additional cases still awaiting court dates. The reason why its much harder and why a class action lawsuit is not possible is because the government inserted a law to protect vaccine makes after they were being forced to pay out billions in damages to families. It came a point where enough was enough when it came to their loss in profit so the govt stepped in to assist, unfortunately this isnt favorable for the people but only business.Below I have supplied three links to court cases. Please take the time to check out each one to understand them further. http://www.uscfc.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/CAMPBELL-SMITH.MOJABI-PROFFER.12.13.2012.pdfhttp://www.uscfc.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/MORAN.LAWSON011211.pdfLink removed by USCFC website. Trying to locate new link.http://www.uscfc.uscourts.gov/sites/default/files/CAMPBELLSMITH.%20DOE77082710.pdfLink removed by USCFC website. Trying to locate new link.Is there more evidence linking vaccines to autism? Yes. While some studies exist to state that their is no link between vaccines and autism, I have found several that do show a link. Given the existence of these studies and their results, I think we need to truly examine whether or not vaccines are safe and if it makes sense for us to blindly follow what we are told to do when it comes to vaccines regardless of the dangers. I can already hear the comments that will come in from people stating the dangers of this post and that this is some conspiracy, but it is not. Realize that this is much more of a real and serious issue than many think.Below is what I have come across in terms of studies thanks to the tireless research of people out there who care about uncovering the truth.Autoimmunity to the central nervous system (CNS), especially to myelin basicprotein (MBP), may play a causal role in autism, a neurodevelopmentaldisorder. Because many autistic children harbor elevated levels of measlesantibodies, we conducted a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and MBP autoantibodies..over 90% of MMR antibody-positive autistic sera were also positive for MBPautoantibodies, suggesting a strong association between MMR and CNSautoimmunity in autism. Stemming from this evidence, we suggest that aninappropriate antibody response to MMR, specifically the measles component thereof, might be related to pathogenesis of autism.Serological association of measles virus and human herpes virus-6with brain auto-antibodies in autismThis study is the first to report an association between virus serology andbrain autoantibody in autism; it supports the hypothesis that a virus-inducedautoimmune response may play a causal role in autismConjugate vaccines fundamentally change the manner in which the immunesystems of infants and young children function by deviating their immuneresponses to the targeted carbohydrate antigens from a state of hypo-responsiveness to a robust B2 B cell mediated response.This period of hypo-responsiveness to carbohydrate antigens coincides withthe intense myelination process in infants and young children, and conjugatevaccines may have disrupted evolutionary forces that favored early braindevelopment over the need to protect infants and young children fromcapsular bacteria.Effects of diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis or tetanus vaccination onallergies and allergy-related respiratory symptoms among children and adolescents in the United States.The odds of having a history of asthma was twice as great among vaccinatedsubjects than among unvaccinated subjects The odds of having had anyallergy-related respiratory symptom in the past 12 months was 63% greateramong vaccinated subjects than unvaccinated subjects The associationsbetween vaccination and subsequent allergies and symptoms were greatestamong children aged 5 through 10 years.Review is made of 107 cases of neurological complications of pertussisinoculation reported in the literature. The early onset of neurologicalsymptoms was characteristic, with changes of consciousness and convulsionsas the most striking features. The question of aetiology is considered andcontraindications are discussed.as is the grave danger of furtherinoculations when a previous one has produced any suggestion of aneurological reaction.Findings suggest that U.S. male neonates vaccinated with the hepatitis Bvaccine prior to 1999 (from vaccination record) had a threefold higher risk forparental report of autism diagnosis compared to boys not vaccinated asneonates during that same time period. Nonwhite boys bore a greater risk.Do aluminum vaccine adjuvants contribute to the rising prevalence ofautism?Our results show that: (i) children from countries with the highest ASDprevalence appear to have the highest exposure to Al from vaccines; (ii) theincrease in exposure to Al adjuvants significantly correlates with the increasein ASD prevalence in the United States observed over the last two decades;and (iii) a significant correlation exists between the amounts of Al administeredto preschool children and the current prevalence of ASD in seven Western countries, particularly at 3-4 months of age.A second series of experiments was conducted on mice injected with sixdoses of aluminum hydroxide. Behavioural analyses in these mice revealed significant impairments in a number of motor functions as well as diminishedspatial memory capacity.Experimental research, clearly shows that aluminum adjuvants have apotential to induce serious immunological disorders in humans. In particular,aluminum in adjuvant form carries a risk for autoimmunity, long-term braininflammation and associated neurological complications and may thus haveprofound and widespread adverse health consequences. click for entire studyIntegrating experimental (in vitro and in vivo) neurotoxicity studies oflow-dose thimerosal relevant to vaccines.There is a need to interpret neurotoxic studies to help deal with uncertaintiessurrounding pregnant mothers, newborns and young children who mustreceive repeated doses of Thimerosal-containing vaccines (TCVs).Information extracted from studies indicates that: (a) activity of low doses ofThimerosal against isolated human and animal brain cells was found in allstudies and is consistent with Hg neurotoxicity; (b) the neurotoxic effect ofethylmercury has not been studied with co-occurring adjuvant-Al in TCVs; (c)animal studies have shown that exposure to Thimerosal-Hg can lead toaccumulation of inorganic Hg in brain, and that (d) doses relevant to TCVexposure possess the potential to affect human neuro-development.The present study provides additional epidemiological evidence supportingprevious epidemiological, clinical and experimental evidence thatadministration of thimerosal-containing vaccines in the United States resultedin a significant number of children developing NDs.Neonatal administration of thimerosal causes persistent changes inmu opioid receptors in the rat brainThese data document that exposure to thimerosal during early postnatal lifeproduces lasting alterations in the densities of brain opioid receptors alongwith other neuropathological changes, which may disturb brain development.Persistent behavioral impairments and alterations of brain dopaminesystem after early postnatal administration of thimerosal in rats.These data document that early postnatal THIM administration causes lastingneurobehavioral impairments and neurochemical alterations in the brain,dependent on dose and sex. If similar changes occur in THIM/mercurial-exposed children, they could contribute do neurodevelopmental disorders.Maternal Thimerosal Exposure Results in Aberrant CerebellarOxidative Stress, Thyroid Hormone Metabolism, and Motor Behavior in Rat Pups; Sex- and Strain-Dependent Effects.Thimerosal exposure also resulted in a significant increase in cerebellar levelsof the oxidative stress marker 3-nitrotyrosine. This coincided with anincreased (47.0%) expression of a gene negatively regulated by T3, Ourdata thus demonstrate a negative neurodevelopmental impact of perinatalthimerosal exposure.Administration of thimerosal to infant rats increases overflow ofglutamate and aspartate in the prefrontal cortex: protective role of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate.Thimerosal, a mercury-containing vaccine preservative, is a suspected factorin the etiology of neurodevelopmental disorders. We previously showed thatits administration to infant rats causes behavioral, neurochemical andneuropathological abnormalities similar to those present in autism.