If the above document does not display use this link!cdc vaccine ingredientsYou will need the updated Adobe Readerif you dont already have it.To find out the question to that, lets dissect just a few of the ingredients on the list.Aluminum is present in many things around us. Its in food, air, water, and soil and is said to be harmless when swallowed because it doesnt absorb into the body when consumed. Aluminum is put into vaccines as an adjuvantto help them work better or to enhance them. So what is the concern about injecting aluminum into the blood stream?According to the FDA:So basically from those documents we learn that if a premature baby receives more than 10 mcg of aluminum in an IV, it can accumulate in their bones and brain, and can be toxic.The FDA maximum requirements for aluminum received in an IV is 25 mcg per day. The suggested aluminum per kg of weight to give to a person is up to 5mcg. (so a 5 pounds baby shouldget no more than 11mcg of aluminum.) Anything that has more than 25 mcg of aluminum is *supposed* to have a label that says: Vaccines, for some reason, are not required to have this label and also are not required to follow the maximum dosage of 25 mcg.So doing some math the following are examples of weight with their corresponding maximum levels of aluminum, per the FDA:So how much aluminum is in the vaccines that are routinely given to children?At birth, most children are given the hepatitis B vaccination. The amount of aluminum in the Hepatitis B vaccine alone is almost 14 TIMES THE AMOUNT OF ALUMINUM THAT IS FDA-APPROVED.At well-child check-ups, its common for 2 month, 4 month, 6 month etc., appointments to include up to 8 vaccinations that add up to more than 1,000 mcg of aluminum. Look at the chart above and notice that that amount isnt even safe for a 350 pound adult. And many children get up to 8 vaccinations a visit several times a year!According to the FDA and the AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics), what happens if a child receives more than the maximum required dose of aluminum?[Aluminum Toxicity in Infants and Children, Committee on Nutrition,American Academy of Pediatrics, Pediatrics Volume 97, Number 3 March, 1996, pp. 413-416]What are amino acids? Put simply, amino acids are the building blocks of proteins in our bodies and they make up over 3/4 of the human body. There are 20 amino acids found naturally in the body and 8 that are considered essential for humans because our bodies cannot create them naturally, and therefore must be taken into our bodies by diet. (This becomes a *great* selling point for certain diets or food products).So injecting amino acids into the body by way of vaccination is good, yes? Wrong.So whats the outcome if you inject amino acids and/or foreign animal and human protein into the body instead of first digesting the proteins to make amino acids naturally?I personally became aware of what formaldehyde is most commonly used for by our local mortician several years ago. After my son died, we met with the funeral directors to begin planning our sons funeral. During our grief-ridden conversations, we came to the conclusion that we needed to wait a week to have the funeral. My father-in-law had graciously offered to make his casket from scratch, and that takes time (the project ended up including all of my brothers-in-laws and sisters-in-law, my dad, my brother, my mom, and my mother-in-law). Knowing the time constraints from death to burial, (or at least what I thought I knew) I thought this might be an issue. The funeral director (also the head mortician) assured us it would not be a problem because the formalin used in the embalming process would preserve his precious little body so that we wouldnt need to worry about the concern of waiting a week. Whats Formalin? I asked? Formaldehyde, he answered. When I learned that Formaldehyde was an ingredient in vaccines, it made me a little sick to my stomach. Formaldehyde is toxic and is known to cause cancer . The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) classifies formaldehyde as a [International Agency for Research on Cancer (June 2004).IARC Monographs on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks to Humans Volume 88 (2006): Formaldehyde, 2-Butoxyethanol and 1-tert-Butoxypropan-2-ol. Retrieved June 10, 2011, from:http://monographs.iarc.fr/ENG/Monographs/vol88/index.php]. In 2011, the National Toxicology Program, an interagency program of the Department of Health and Human Services, named formaldehyde as a known human carcinogen in its12thReport on Carcinogens[National Toxicology Program (June 2011).Report on Carcinogens, Twelfth Edition.Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, National Toxicology Program. Retrieved June 10, 2011, from:http://ntp.niehs.nih.gov/go/roc12]. According to the National Research Council: Fewer than 20% but perhaps more than 10% of the general population may be susceptible to formaldehyde allergies and may react acutely at any exposure level. Formaldehyde is oxidised to formic acid which leads to acidosis and nerve damage. Acidosis can be described as a condition in which the acidity of the body tissues and fluids is abnormally high. The liver and the kidneys may also be damaged. Other known side effects from exposure to formaldehyde: [Chronic Exposure and Human Health] Keep in mind that chronic exposure from the source means exposed several times. Benzethonium Chloride (referred to as BC) is an anti-microbial agent used as a preservative in some vaccines. There has been no testing done on humans to find out information regarding the injection of BC into the blood stream. I have been searching for over a year with no luck in finding any such information. What has been documented about BC under the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) under section 11 is that it is toxic when inhaled or ingested and is alsohazardousto human skin. Based on animal testing, it may cause mutations in genetic information and also be carcinogenic (cause cancer). The known side effects of ingesting BC are (according to its MSDS):Raise your hand if you agree BC should be tested morethoroughly. After all, we are injecting our children with this.Glutaraldehyde is an organic compound that is used todisinfectmedical and dental equipment. In vaccines it is used as a chemical preservative. There have been several studies done on Glutaraldehyde and it has been found that exposure to it can cause:Sources: Glutaraldehyde-induced and formaldehyde-induced allergic contact dermatitisSCOTT M. RAVIS, M.D.,MATTHEW P. SHAFFER, M.D.,CHRISTY L. SHAFFER, M.D.,SEENA DEHKHAGHANI, M.D.andDONALD V. BELSITO, M.D.; Glutaraldehyde-induced asthma.Quirce S,Gmez M,Bombn C,Sastre J. 1999 Oct;54(10):1121-2.;Genetic toxicity and carcinogenicity studies of glutaraldehydea review.Zeiger E,Gollapudi B,Spencer P. Mutat Res.2005 Mar;589(2):136-51;Divergent immunological responses following glutaraldehyde exposure. Azadi S,Klink KJ,Meade BJ. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol.2004 May 15;197(1):1-8.All of these derive from either human tissue or human blood.To explain MRC-5, lets look at a brief history before MRC-5 came about. In 1964, during an outbreak of Rubella, some doctors urged women who had been exposed to the Rubella virus to abort their pregnancy. (Why? Rubella is an extremely mild virus [see: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0002541/]. Most people dont show any symptoms, especially children, some may get a rash all over their body. Rubella becomes dangerous when a pregnant woman is exposed to the virus because it has the potential to cause severe abnormalities in the child.) From one of these aborted children that had been exposed to Rubella Virus, doctors developed a virus strain that became known as RA/27/3 Rubella; Abortus; 27th aborted fetus; 3rd tissue explant. In other words, it took 26 aborted infants to get the right strain. The virus was then cultivated on the lung tissue of another aborted child, and this child became known as WI-38 Winster Institute 38). WI -38 was an infant girl at 3 months gestation. What makes this seem somewhat ridiculous is that the Japanese, years before the first aborted infant was used to extract the Rubella virus, proved that the virus can be taken from a *living* child simply by swabbing their throat.In the 1970s, a second human cell line was created from an infant boy at 14 weeks gestation and became known as MRC-5.WI-38 and MRC-5 have become the most used cell lines to make vaccinations. Labs currently use these 2 cell lines, as well as new sources (a.k.a new aborted infants) to create new vaccines.The use of tissue from aborted infants has caused heated debate because it is ethically questionable. Pro-life groups, which include many churches and parents whose morals condemn profiting from aborted infants, continue to fight thepharmaceutical companies to produce vaccines that do not contain this tissue. And the thing is, its possible. Vaccines can be made from other sources.DNA is harvested from aborted infants. It is used as adjuvant in vaccines. In vaccines, 100,000,000 bits and strands of human dna are allowed per dose. Again, we encounter the issue of the ethical dilemma for this issue.Human Serum Albumin is astabilizingprotein made from human blood donated by screened donors. We already discussed above why injecting a protein directly into the body is dangerous.With that aside, lets look at the points we reach regarding these 4 different ingredients:We have human DNA, human cell lines from aborted infants, and protein from human blood in 23 of our vaccines. When we need a blood transfusion, or a blood donation of some kind, what is absolutely required? A match, correct? For example, if a person with type O blood receives type A+ blood, the outcome is fatal. There are rules of science that cannot be crossed regarding DNA and blood. It is imperative to be tested when receiving any type of tissue or blood to ensure that a fatal blood or tissue type isnt put into your body. So may I ask: How many of you or your children were given a blood test before receiving vaccinations? We all know the answer to that. It doesnt happen. The outcome to mixing and NOT matching human blood and tissue with other humans can be virtuallydisastrous. Remember that every one of those 4 ingredients have human DNA in them. Even after the protein is extracted from human blood, DNA remains.There was a recent study done by Dr. Helen Ratajczak calledTheoretical aspects of autism: CausesA review. In this study, Dr. Ratajczak studied the problems associated with injecting human tissue into another person. Please see the CBS report on this study. In this CBS report it says:Thimerosal is a compound made up of approximately 50% mercury. Mercury is the second most poisonous element known to man (next to uranium and itsderivatives.) When someone says, MERCURY! we immediately think of the news stories about the child at school who broke a thermometer in biology class and the HAZ-MAT team was called in and all the students were in peril. Did you know they make that big of a deal (meaning bringing in the HAZ-MAT crew) for less mercury than what is contained in 1 vaccine [http://www.epa.gov/mercury/spills/index.htm]? Thimerosalis used as a preservative in vaccines to help prevent bacteria growth in multi-use vaccines. It is also used in the creation process of a vaccine, and then through a purification process it is removed and only trace amounts are left. First, I urge you to read this article: Is There Thimerosal in the Flu Vaccine?Next, lets discuss what trace amounts means. (If you notice in the document above next to many of the Thimerosals, there is an asterisk next to it. The asterisk notates that *Where thimerosal is marked with an asterisk (*) it indicates that the product should be considered equivalent tothimerosal-free products.)Before we move on, a little story I was at the grocery store a little while ago looking at a large bag of Stevia the new fad in no-calorie sweeteners. I was reading the back of the bag and I came to a little spot at the bottom that said Each serving contains less than 2 calories which the FDA considers dietetically zero. What?! That doesnt even make sense! If something is said to be calorie-free, it should be calorie-free, right?? If something has calories in it, it has calories in it. You cannot place some carrots on the counter and tell me there are no carrots on the counter. A serving size of Stevia is 1tsp, so lets assume that 1 tsp contains 1.9 calories. Remember, we have to assume because we DONT ACTUALLY KNOW. Its the FDA that says the calories in Stevia dont exist, but just for the mere fact that there is this disclaimer on the bag lets us know that there are, in fact, carrots on the counter er, I mean calories in the bag. But going back, were going to say there are 1.9 calories per serving. Using Stevia is cup for cup. In other words, you use the same amount of Stevia as you would regular sugar. So, Im going to make some fantabulous low-calorie chocolate chip cookies with my no-calorie Stevia. Im on a strict diet, so all I need to add up to find out how many calories are in my batch of cookies are all of my ingredients EXCEPT sugar, right? But wait Im adding 2 cups of Stevia into my batch of cookies. There are 48 teaspoons in a cup, which means Im adding 96 teaspoons of Stevia which also would equate to 182.4 EXTRA calories. Theres no argument that it has greatly reduced the number of calories in my batch of cookies versus using conventional sugar, but the fact remains: NO-CALORIE IS NOT NO-CALORIE.So the fact that those vaccines containing thimerosal with an asterisk beside it virtually says the same thing and is extremely misleading. They should be considered equivalent to thimerosal-free products gives the illusion that there is no thimerosal in vaccines, or at least not enough to have to worry about. But remember, if I eat 8 batches of my cookies that are supposed to be low calorie because of my calorie-free Stevia, Im actually consuming 1,459.2 calories that the FDA says arent really there. This can be applied to vaccines as well. Many well-child check-ups include up to 8 vaccines in one sitting.So how much does trace mean? According to the CDC, it says less than or equal to 0.3mcg per dose. Sailhome.org does a nice job of putting this into perspective:Also the math on how many ppb in a thimerosal free vaccine:0.3 mcg / 0.5mL = 0.3 mcg / .0005L = 3,000 mcg / 5L = 600 mcg / L 1 mg/KG = 1 PPM (formal definition of PPM) 1 L = 1 KG (density of water or saline solution) 1 mcg/L = 1 PPB (because 1 KG and 1 L of water are equivalent) THEREFORE: 600 mcg / L = 600 ppb Thimerosal in the thimerosal-free vaccineFlu vaccine has only 25 mcg Thimerosal. The shot is 0.5mL. Lets do some math: 25 mcg / 0.5mL = 25 mcg / .0005L = 250,000 mcg / 5L = 50,000 mcg / L 1 mcg / L = 1 ppb, therefore The shot has 50,000 ppb of ThimerosalRemember that 2 ppb mercury is the mandated limit in drinking water and normally 200 ppb would label something a toxic hazard.After we find all of this information out, we have to ask ourselves: Why is mercury dangerous??A Research Video from the University of Calgary***Notice that mercury doesnt only stunt neurological growth, it actuallyit, or destroys it.Yeast extract is a common name used for various forms of processed yeast. Many people have yeast allergies, and vaccines can induce an anaphylactic response after being vaccinated due to the yeast.Aside from that, ALL yeast extract contains MSG. Many people have either an allergy or a sensitivity to MSG (I am one of them). MSG has been known to cause:We already discussed under Amino Acidswhy injecting protein directly into the body is harmful. Aside from that, individuals allergic to eggs can have a serious reaction to vaccines that contain egg protein. Whats interesting is that many parents dont know that vaccines contain egg products, and doctors virtually never reveal that information (if they are actually aware themselves), even if they know that vaccines contain egg products. When a child with an egg allergy has a reaction to a vaccine, doctors often deny the fact that its even a *possibility* that the vaccine caused the reaction.Cetyltrimethylammonium Bromide is a cationic surfactant. Its used for many things, including acting as a buffer solution for extracting DNA. According to its Safety Data Sheetwe find out several things:In almost all cases of any kind of contact with CTMB, it advises to contact a medical professional and it advises that CTMB should never touch any part of the human body. It also gives precautionary information and equipment to use/wear during handling CTMB. Under section 8 Exposure Controls/personal protection, it advises to:This sounds like some pretty serious stuff, and millions of children and adults are getting this injected into their bodiesIn the general information for CTMB, it explains that Symptoms of poisoning may even occur after several hours and the patient should be observed for up to 48 hours after coming into contact with it. (How many children have a reaction to a vaccine that isnt immediate or even on the first day? Hundreds. And yet if the reaction isnt immediate, medical professional dismiss the possibility of a vaccine reaction even faster.)2-Phenoxyethoanol is used as an antibacterial agent in vaccines. According to the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet), we find that it is toxic if swallowed, inhaled, absorbed through the skin, it is a severeskin and eye irritant, and it may cause reproductive defects [http://www.sciencelab.com/msds.php?msdsId=9926486]. According to the EPA data sheets, it has shown to cause chromosomal changes and genetic mutations in tests, as well as testicular atrophy and interference withreproductivityin mice [http://www.epa.gov/ttn/atw/glycol2000.pdf].The known side effects of 2-Phenoxyethanolexposureare: