Vaccines Can Cause Injury and Death. Post Vaccination Injury Is Visible. Contact us to learn more about homeoprophylaxis.Call 911 or your doctor immediately or go to an emergency room if you see symptoms if serious vaccine reactions or complication after vaccination.Report All Vaccine Reactions to the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System at VAERS.orgRead a very sad recent story about an infant who died after 8 vaccines. He would not sleep or eat. He threw tantrums and screamed for no reason. He was a normal, happy baby toddler and after his shots he out of control. He changed into a totally different child! It scared us to deathwe wondered what had happened to him? Her eyes were wide open, then she would arch her back and scream and go limp, unconscious. She still has these these seizures. It is terrifying to us to see this happen to her. Our baby turned all white with a blue tinge around her mouth and then she went completely limp. It was frightening to watch. Her eyes twitched, her chin trembled, her body went rigid and then would shake. I was terrified watching her. Our baby completely passed out after his 6 month shots and we couldnt even wake him to feed or do anything for over 12 hours. Our toddler son started banging his head and spinning around a week after his 18 month vaccines. He became hyperactive. We could not stop him, he moved constantly. We worried about skull damage and what had happened to him after his vaccines were give. It was then that learned more, and we realized he was vaccine injured His body temperature was 105 degrees, it was like he was burning up, every part of him was HOT. The doctor told me to just give Tylenol, but I was terribly frightened. He never had a fever that high before. She was screaming cry, a high pitched, shrill scream like she was in pain and it lasted all day. No matter what it did it would not stop. It was like she was being tortured. The next day after his shots, our toddler no longer would look at us or anyone. We tried to get him to look, but he would not. It was like he changed overnight.we had no idea what had happened at the time, but later realized he was vaccine damaged. My 18 month old son stopped talking and walking after those shots. He developed severe allergies, constant diarrhea, ear infections and was sick all the time. Every other week I was in the doctors office getting antibiotics for something. A few weeks after our sons kindergarten shots, he could not longer stand the feeling of any fabric tags, his socks had to be put on exactly right and he became hypersensitive to any noise, light or touch. He was prickly, irritable. His teacher told us he could not focus or sit in the classroom anymore. He completely changed from the calm and happy little boy we knew prior. There was a big, hot swollen lump at the site of the shot that started right after the vaccines were give, and it stayed for many weeks.Report All Vaccine Reactions to the Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS.org).