Recently a 43-page document produced by the Indian Parliament accused the U.S. organization, PATH, funded partially by the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation, of committing illegal and improper activities in support of the development of the HPV vaccinein India. Later, Gardasil and other HPV vaccine victims sued Merck, the manufacturer of those vaccines, for causing permanent disabilities. Though the dangers of these vaccines, sold under the auspices of protecting women from cervical cancer, are now more openly talked about, the industry did its best at covering up the possible dangers which makers knowingly swept under the rug. A newly published scientific document reveals some of these startling dangers, as never before, and calls into question the true intent behind these medicines.It isnt as if other scientist have not been ringing the alarm bells. Dr. Sin Hang Lee, MD, Director, Milford Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory, recently submitted an official, open-letter complaint to the Director-General of the World Health Organization (WHO), Dr. Margaret Chan, alleging gross misconduct, malfeasance and what potentially amounts to criminal behavior to deceive the public regarding the safety of HPV vaccines Gardasil and Cervarix.The newly printed HPV vaccine study was one printed in the journal Vaccine, which had removed the study without any explanation, only telling the authors that the editor required further review of their paper. Later in the same month following contact with the papers writers, Vaccine retracted the paper,citing serious concerns regarding the scientific soundness of the article, and seriously flawed methodology.However, In July, another journal Immunologic Research republished the paper.The original paper cited behavioral abnormalities in young female mice after they were given aluminum adjuvants and the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, Gardasil. This lethal combination caused neuroinflammation and autoimmune reactions in the mice, leading to behavioral changes.The new paper in Immunologic Research, Behavioral abnormalities in female mice following administration of aluminum adjuvants and the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine Gardasil, contains the same sentence in its abstract.Furthermore, as Health Impact News details, in the new version of the study, the authors conclude:both Al and Gardasil vaccine injections resulted in behavioral abnormalities in miceHow is it that one scientific journal finds these results worthy of publishing, while another calls them into serious question. Could it be that much of what is published is certifiably false, hopelessly compromised by the pharmaceutical industry and its financiers? Richard Horton, the once Editor-in Chief of one of the worlds most respected journals, The Lancet, states,Despite this admission, the US government, and its corporate cronies do nothing to reveal the dangers of many drugs, the HPV vaccine(s) among them.Fortunately, Indias legislative bodies were not as forgiving.The 43-page report penned by Indian officials stated that PATHs presence in India had been illegal.Are Indias young women the only victims of this Gates and Merck crime? Hardly. Between2006 and 2015, roughly 80 million doses of Gardasil were administered. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention even promote a two-dose HPV vaccine schedule that was updated by an advisory committee as recently as February of 2016.Moreover, is the HPV vaccine just another tool in the self-designated Good Club belt a gathering of influential people with a net worth exceeding $125 billion who meet behind closed doors to discuss a coordinated response to overpopulation, and infectious disease, Bill Gates, Warren Buffet, and David Rockefeller among them?Utilizing philanthrocapitalism, another version of weaponized do-goodery, are these entities putting womens reproductive health at risk in order to promote a depopulation agenda? If we are to glean any wisdom from a republished scientific study, the answer is a resounding, yes.This article (Dangers of HPV Vaccine Revealed Yet Again in Scientific Paper that Was Retracted, Now Republished) was originally created and published byThe Mind Unleashedand is re-posted here with permission.~~ Help Waking Times to raise the vibration by sharing this article with friends and family