The decision to vaccinate is yours alone, but it is a decision that should not be taken lightly or done under duress or pressure by others. Once vaccinated, the potential side-effects cannot be easily undone, if at all. These include death, sudden infant death syndrome, auto-immune disorders, inflammatory bowel disease, allergies, asthma, ADHD, autism, Guillian-Barr Syndrome and other neurological damage.Your physician will most likely NOT connect the development of these unnatural disease states with vaccination, whether they occur immediately after vaccinations, several days or months later. You alone will be responsible for treating your child or yourself for these life-long diseases.The decision to vaccinate SHOULD include extensive research to determine if it is right for your family.The following are ten reasons not to vaccinate. Additional educational resources follow.1. Vaccines have never been proven safe or effective. Vaccine studies funded by pharmaceutical companies compare vaccine side-effects from one vaccine to another. True, scientific, double-blind placebo studies have never been conducted on vaccines to determine their safety. Effectiveness cannot be determined unless one is then knowingly exposed to the disease entity following vaccination. Only antibody production is measured. See How Pharmaceutical Companies Hide the Dangers of Vaccines from Parents.2. Vaccines do NOT work. They may create a temporary increase in antibodies for a particular disease, but this does not equate to immunity to disease. Vaccines, with all of their toxins and their unnatural way of introducing disease directly into ones blood stream, decrease cellular immunity, which is more critical for ones immune system. Neurologist Russell Blaylock has lectured and written extensively on this subject.When there are outbreaks of disease, unvaccinated children are often blamed. Whenever the outbreaks are examined more closely, the data show that the majority of those suffering have been vaccinated for the disease.Disease charts show that diseases were mostly eliminated prior to the creation of vaccinations. What is truly responsible for most communicable disease elimination is clean water and improved sanitation. See the following graphs: Disease Graphs Showing Decline of Childhood Illnesses Prior to Vaccines.3. The very first vaccine was a disaster. Vaccine safety and effectiveness is a created myth, strongly embedded in Americans psyche and reinforced by the health care system.The history of small pox vaccines demonstrates that the first vaccine resulted in an increase in the disease and created additional serious health consequences including syphilis and deaths. Physician groups met repeatedly to discuss the vaccine problem and concluded that as long as vaccines remained profitable, they would be impossible to eliminate, in spite of the evidence against them. Nothing has changed since this time.The polio vaccine was another one linked to serious health consequences, including cancer and AIDS. Statistics were manipulated to try and prove this vaccines effectiveness. With each new vaccine has come new health damage and created illness. See Small Pox Vaccine: Origins of Vaccine Madness.4. Vaccines are highly profitable for pharmaceutical companies and the health care industry. Strong financial incentives exist to continue this practice, not effectiveness. You cannot trust brochures on vaccines provided by pharmaceutical companies because they are corporations with a profit motive. Their objective is NOT to protect health but to sell vaccines.5. All vaccines contain a number of toxic poisons and chemicals that are linked to serious neurological damage including aluminum, thimerosal (methyl mercury), antibiotics, monosodium glutamate (MSG) and formaldehyde. Other dangerous substances found in vaccines include antifreeze, lead, cadmium, glycerine, acetone, and yeast proteins.6. Every study comparing unvaccinated to vaccinated children demonstrates that unvaccinated children enjoy far superior health. Unvaccinated children generally do not suffer from upper respiratory illnesses, ear infections, autism, ADHD, asthma, allergies, auto-immune disorders and other diseases, in comparison to those vaccinated. (See Sally Fallon Morells The Nourishing Traditions Book of Baby and Child Care, 2013.)7. Vaccines cause a host of chronic, incurable, and life threatening diseases, including autism, asthma, ADHD, auto-immune disorders, Guillain-Barre Syndrome, food allergies and brain damage. [1]8. The only way to create true life-long immunity to a disease is through natural exposure to the disease in which the body creates true antibodies and immunity on many levels.9. Vaccines kill infants, children and adults. Strong evidence links vaccines to sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). [2] More than one hundred previously healthy young women have died as a result of the HPV vaccine. [3] The flu vaccine has been documented as awarding the most money for serious health injuries, including death. [4] [5]The long term effects of vaccines are unknown. It is a medical experiment of ones health for which no one knows the long term health consequences.US children are given far more vaccines at younger ages compared to other countries. Infant mortality rates for US children are one of the worst in the world, especially compared to countries who vaccinate their children less and who have wisely raised vaccination ages. [6]10. If you or a loved one suffers from a vaccine injury, pharmaceutical companies and physicians hold no medical liability. In 1986, the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act was formed, eliminating the ability to directly sue pharmaceutical companies or health care practitioners responsible for vaccine injuries.You are on your own to try and regain your health in the event that you are vaccine injured. The expense and suffering is yours alone to face. Very few individuals will be awarded money from funds set up by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act. The system is designed for individuals to fail in making their claim of vaccine injury. The public pays for this injury fund in the cost of taxes on vaccinations.To learn more, read my other in-depth articles on vaccinations which have been published on VacTruth or Natural News, here: VaccinationsYou may also check the resources below. Most important is to remember that vaccinations are a medical intervention and procedure which carries tremendous risks, so it is important to educate yourself first, prior to making the decision to go forward. Weigh the risks and benefits and be an informed consumer of medical care.Michelle Goldstein is a mental health therapist who is passionate about holistic health and healing. She has published articles for Natural News, VacTruth and Kelly the Kitchen Kop. She can be found at Holistic Health to Go. Her other vaccination articles can be found here: Vaccinations.