(NaturalNews) The push for widespread flu vaccination is something that happens year after year. In fact, it seems as though the mainstream medical community is becoming even more demanding and aggressive about their vaccination agenda than ever before. Just this past September, the CDC updated their flu vaccination guidelines so they could encourage people with egg allergies to get the flu vaccine. As many people are aware, in the past having an egg allergy exempted you from having to get the vaccine because this particular shot contains traces of eggs. Seems perfectly reasonable and logical, doesn't it? Well, they're throwing logic out the window with their new suggestions. People with minor allergic reactions, like hives, are called upon to be vaccinated as usual, at any location of their choosing. For those with more severe reactions – like anaphylactic shock, which can kill you – it is suggested that they get vaccinated at their doctor's office, a hospital or other medical facility. That way, when the person's throat closes up, hopefully someone will be able to save their life. That seems perfectly reasonable to ask someone to do, don't you think? Apparently having a life-threatening food allergy is no longer enough to allow people to be remiss in their civic duty to be injected with harmful substances. To be perfectly honest, for the average non-allergic person, eggs in the flu vaccine are really the least worrisome ingredient. There are things in vaccines many times more toxic than egg whites could ever hope to be. Mercury, for example, is a toxic heavy metal. Despite industry claims that mercury is not used in vaccines, it still seems to have quite the presence. In 2014, Mike Adams, the Health Ranger, revealed that laboratory testing showed quite a different story about the mercury content in flu shots. Using ICP-MS technology, Adams found that Fluval – a common flu shot – contained mercury at a level of 51 parts per million. The Health Ranger notes that this volume of mercury is more than 25,000 times higher than the maximum contaminant level of inorganic mercury allowed in drinking water, as per the standards set by the EPA. Adams writes, "In fact, the concentration of mercury found in this GSK flu shot was 100 times higher than the highest level of mercury we've ever tested in contaminated fish." Sodium deoxycholate is another concerning ingredient that is also featured in many flu vaccines. This chemical is actually a water-soluble ionic detergent and bile salt, and it is also known to promote cell death. Sodium deoxycholate has been shown to weaken the blood-brain barrier, and subsequently lead to seizures. It's thought that the chemical can also induce DNA damage. Synergistic toxicity has also been seen when combined with certain medications. Researchers from the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine found that the toxicity of sodium deoxycholate created an inflammatory response that persisted for 10 days following exposure. Neomycin sulfate and polymyxin B are two antibiotic agents that are often featured in flu vaccines. Supposedly, these antibiotics are added to vaccines during manufacturing to prevent bacterial contamination. One would hope that the conditions under which an injected substance is created would be clean and sterile enough not to warrant the addition of antibiotics for "safety," but apparently that may not be the case. Furthermore, given the growing concerns over antibiotic resistance in humans, it stands to reason that injecting antibiotics into uninfected individuals is probably not the best idea. There are, of course, many other toxic aspects to flu vaccines. Some have alleged, for example that glyphosate, the primary ingredient in Roundup, may be present in a number of vaccines. Vaccines are not what the mainstream medical world wants you to believe; they are filled with harmful chemicals that no person would willingly inject into their body. The prevalence of pro-vaccine science truly showcases the increasing need for independent science. Sources: CDC.gov NaturalNews.com PreventDisease.com CHOP.edu NaturalHealth365.com Rense.com