(NaturalHealth365) Wherever they turn, parents are bombarded with demands that they vaccinate their children. From public schools to the trusted pediatrician, the message is loud and clear that vaccines are a critical part of raising a healthy child. But, to protect our kids, we really need to wake up!Proponents would have us believe that vaccination is the only way to avoid the risk of deadly diseases. A similar message urges adults to get the flu vaccine each fall, despite a lack of evidence that it works. Of course, parents unwilling to get aboard the vaccination wagon run the risk of finding themselves demonized in the press, the physicians office and the public eye.What they know in their gut is not always reflective of the action they take. Most parents have probably heard about at least some of the dangerous ingredients used in vaccines. Yet the wide majority will end up bowing to pressure anyway, subjecting their young children to health risks much greater than the risk of disease they are vaccinating against.There is ample reason to avoid vaccinations. Here is a list of some of the most deadly ingredients used in vaccines as well as the health risk they pose:1. Acetone: This clear, volatile liquid is used as a paint solvent and nail polish remover. It is also well known as an industrial chemical used in plastics and manufacturing.2. Aluminum phosphate and aluminum sulfate: Known also by its chemical make up, phosphoric acid and aluminum salt, aluminum phosphate consists of a corrosive acid and neurotoxin. Similarly, aluminum sulfate is known by its components, sulfuric acid, an extremely carcinogenic and corrosive acid, and aluminum salt, a neurotoxin.3. Benzethonium chloride: This dangerous chemical is a known carcinogen. It is also known to cause genetic mutations in unborn children.4. Ethanol: Also known as ethyl alcohol, ethanol is known to cause vomiting, headaches, drowsiness and uncounsciousness.5. Formaldehyde: This is an extremely dangerous carcinogen, as well as a source of genetic mutation in the unborn.6. Glutaraldehyde: This liquid chemical has a number of industrial uses, including use as a disinfectant, preservative, biocide, hardening agent, preservative, and embalming agent. It is known to cause asthma, allergies, breathing problems, and coughing.7. Human serum albumin: A human protein, but it can only be broken down when digested. When it is injected it can cause autoimmune encephalitis (AE) disorders and allergies.8. Animal components: Vaccines contain both monkey cells, which carry viruses that can cause cancer and diseases, as well as baby cow blood after the red blood cells have been removed. The latter, known as calf serum, can be extremely contaminated with viruses and bacteria.9. Polysorbate 80: This chemical is an emulsifier and a surfactant known to cause infertility. Polysorbate 80 is also known to increase the risk of stroke and heart attack.10. Phenol-carbolic acid: This corrosive acid has been identified by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as an extremely hazardous substance. The CDC itself recommends avoiding all contact. The chemical is known to cause a host of symptoms, from nausea, vomiting and dizziness to the more serious symptoms of convulsions, coma and even death.11. Thimerosal: Also known as ethylmercury, thimerosal is 49.6 percent mercury, the second most toxic element on earth next to plutonium. And, yes, this too is a known neurotoxin.Editors note: The Vaccine World Summit is the worlds first FREE online summit dedicated to vaccine safety news, infectious disease solutions and the latest advances in immune protective protocols. Register today!