Its that time of year: flu season. Pharmacies are advertising their flu shots. Medical groups and physicians urge patients to get their vaccinations. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone get vaccinated, including newborns, pregnant women, children and the elderly.Is there a better, safer way? What are the risks of the flu vaccine versus the relative benefits? It can be argued that improving nutrition during the winter months is a safer, more effective means to prevent flu and other respiratory illnesses.The majority of individuals still fail to realize that the flu vaccine is neither safe nor effective at preventing influenza. It is considered one of the most dangerous of all vaccinations.According to integrative physician Dr. Mercola, the influenza vaccination has been responsible for causing a serious neurological disease, Guillain-Barr Syndrome, which, in severe cases can cause paralysis and death. In 1976, there were 30 deaths caused by the swine flu vaccine, all in previously healthy adults. There are an estimated 3-6,000 cases of Guillain-Barre Syndrome each year.The flu vaccine is known to contain unsafe amounts of the neurotoxin mercury. Vaccines have also been found to increase inflammation in recipients, which, in pregnant women, is linked to brain damage in their newborns. [1]The US governments Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), examining the years 2009-2010, discovered a significant 4,250% increase in fetal deaths after their pregnant mothers received flu vaccine. These statistics were confirmed by Dr. Gary Goldman and published in the Human and Environmental Toxicology Journal. [2]In the year 2013, 139 claims were settled by the US governments vaccine court, with 70 cases being compensated. Of the 70 compensated cases, 42 of them were for the flu vaccine, or 60% of the settled cases in which compensation was awarded for serious injury or death. Many of these cases were for Guillain-Barr Syndrome.This is significant evidence to the seriousness of the danger of the flu vaccine, especially when one considers that most individuals are unaware of the vaccine courts and a significant underreporting of vaccine injuries exists. [3]In a comprehensive report by Barbara Loe Fisher of the National Vaccine Information Center, Fisher revealed that several European scientific studies have shown that unvaccinated individuals were less likely to become ill with influenza and other respiratory illnesses, compared to those vaccinated. For the elderly, some flu vaccines were shown to have no effectiveness in preventing disease. Even the CDC admits to only a 50% effectiveness rate for the flu vaccine most years, with some years having a lower effectiveness rate, including zero effectiveness for elderly. [4]Since vaccinations for flu cannot guarantee prevention of influenza and may actually increase ones chances of becoming ill with influenza, or worse, it makes sense to look at other safer options for improving ones immune system. The following suggestions can be beneficial for both prevention and treatment of respiratory illness and flu.Flu vaccinations have caused serious disease and death, including miscarriages, Guillain-Barr Syndrome, and influenza. The influenza vaccine has been reported to be effective zero to 50% of the time.Safer practices exist to build ones immune system and stay healthy this winter. Some suggestions for avoiding illness include eating nutrient-dense foods, taking vitamins C and D, resting and detoxifying through Epsom salt baths.