Vaccines cause autism. Or, is it vaccines result in autism?You say tomato. I say to-mah-to.Cause it. Result in it. Vaccines did it. You know it. I know it. And now, come to find out, our government apparently knew it too.For years now more than enough people have suggested that vaccines cause autism. Several have tried to prove it. Try as they might, those who should have acknowledged it have turned a blind eye. Not only did they do that, but they adamantly defended themselves with skewed statistics. News of these skewed statistics came from someone working at the CDC. The CDCs slogan is Saving Lives. Protecting People. After last weeks news I cant help but ask whose lives were they trying to save? Their own? Whose lives were they protecting? Themselves?Relying on paperwork instead of listening to those whove been negatively affected by vaccines has kept officials heads in the clouds. Having their heads in the clouds gives them a free pass. It looks like that free pass was used by several people. According to the whistleblower, they didnt factually report their findings. They didnt accurately inform the public. They didnt reveal dangers associated with vaccines. They didnt publicly state the truth. That vaccines come with risks. That theyre loaded with side effects. That they dont offer lifelong immunity. And that they cause autism.Mind you that none of this information is new; its just kept so hush hush that unless you or a loved one has experienced a vaccine injury, it goes under the radar. Only when vaccine injury hits close to home is one forced to go back, read the fine print and put two and two together. Unfortunately, at that point, theyre left to fend for themselves. When vaccines cause autism, a vaccine injured is left high and dry. Thats because the vaccines industry is protected by the government, the same government that evidently knew that vaccines cause autism. Rather than looking out for and protecting the ones theyre meant to serve, the vaccine industry and those who oversee it have chosen to protect each other.