More and more parents around the globe are choosing to opt out of vaccinating themselves and their children. As a result of this trend thats been gaining more and more momentum, a harsh response has come from the pro-vaccine community -criticizing parents for their decision to not vaccinate. At the end of the day its not really about pro-vaccination or anti-vaccination, its not one against the other or about pointing fingers and judgement, its simply about looking at all of the information from a neutral standpoint. Its about asking questions and communicating so people can make the best possible decisions for themselves and their children. Parents love their kids and the vaccine controversy has made it difficult for many parents to know what to do.Its not just parents, its doctors too.A new study published in the journalEbioMedicineoutlines this point, stating in the introduction:Over the past two decades several vaccine controversies have emerged in various countries, including France, inducing worries about severe adverse effects and eroding confidence in health authorities, experts, and science (Larson et al., 2011). These two dimensions are at the core of the vaccine hesitancy (VH) observed in the general population. VH is defined as delay in acceptance of vaccination, or refusal, or even acceptance with doubts about its safety and benefits, with all these behaviors and attitudes varying according to context, vaccine, and personal profile, despite the availability of vaccine services (Group, 2014,Larson et al., 2014, Dub et al., 2013). VH presents a challenge to physicians who must address their patients concerns about vaccines and ensure satisfactory vaccination coverage.The study concludes with the observation that after repeated vaccine controversies in France, some vaccine hesitancy exists among French GPs, whose recommendation behaviours depend on their trust in authorities, their perception of the utility and risks of vaccines, and their comfort in explaining them.As a result, the study outlines how up to 43 % of GPs sometimes. or never, recommend at least one specific vaccine to their patients.The percentages differ because the study was broken down as to which vaccines, and whether they are recommended never, sometimes, often or always. You can refer to the study for more details.The authors overall findingssuggest that VH [vaccine hesitancy] is prevalent among French GPs. It may make them ill at ease in addressing their patients concerns about vaccination, which in turn might reinforce patients VH.Again, this isnt a secret, another study (out of many, cited in the France publication) outlines how more research is needed to understand why some health professionals, trained in medical sciences, still have doubts regarding the safety and effectiveness of vaccination. (source)Parents who are choosing not to vaccinate their children are not just doing it based on belief, they are doing it based on science and information, some of which will be presented in this article. This science and information is nowhere near emphasized to the point where the science and information on the other side of the coin is (pro vaccine). Parents who choose not to vaccinate themselves or their children are clearly intelligent, and they should not be made to look like fools. On the other hand, parents who are choosing to vaccinate their children are also intelligent. Those who choose to vaccinate should not be made out to be the ones who have made the right decision when there is evidence on both sides of the coin thatclearlyshows parents who are not vaccinating their children could also be making the right decision.Id also like to state that there are multiple vaccines, some may be safe, some may not be. There are also criticisms of all the studies mentioned, as well as bias. That being said, all of the studies in this article, with the exception of one or two, have been published in credible peer-reviewed scientific journals. That should not take away from the important work of many independent scientists from all over the world.This article will present a few of the many reasons as to why parents are choosing to not vaccine their children. I am choosing to do this article and not one on why parents are choosing to vaccinate their children because its already very well known as to why they choose to vaccinate their children. I am also doing it to show you why parents who do not vaccinate are not crazy at all, and in fact quite intelligent and up to date on important information.Bringing up the idea that vaccines, in some way, are linked at all to autism can be greeted with a harsh reaction. Some people wont even entertain the idea, or look at information that suggests there could be a link. Truth is, there are plenty of studies that stress the idea that there could be a link, and that there is a link. At the same time, there are plenty of studies that stress there is no link, and that vaccines are not in any way linked to autism. I am referring to peer reviewed publications all the way to important independent research thats not sponsored by the vaccine manufacturers themselves.STUDIES SHOWING VACCINES ARE NOT LINKED TO AUTISMStarting off with some of the most recent data available, a study published in the JournalVaccinedetermined that:The study concluded that vaccinations are not associated with the development of autism or autism spectrum disorder. It was a meta-analysis done by researchers at the University of Sydney, in Australia. It examined ten studies involving more than one million children affirming that vaccines dont cause autism. (1)In March of 2013, the Journal ofPaediatricspublished a study titled Increasing exposure to Antibody-Stimulating Proteins and Polysaccharides (antigens) in Vaccines is Not Associated with Risk of Autism. The study found that vaccines, during the first couple of years of life are not related to the risk of developing an ASD diagnosis. They analyzed data from a case-control study conducted in 3 managed care organizations (MCOs) of 256 children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 752 control children matched on birth year, sex and MCO. (2)Another study published in theJournal of Paediatricstitled Thimerosal exposure in infants and developmental disorders: a retrospective cohort study in the United Kingdom does not support a causal association concluded that, with the possible exception of tics, there was no evidence that thimerosal exposure via the DTP/DT vaccines causes any neurodevelopment disorders. (3)A report published in theCanadian Journal of Neurological Sciencesemphasized how there is an overwhelming majority showing no causal association between the Measles-Mumps-Rubella (MMR) and autism. It also determined that there was no convincing evidence that thimerosal has any role in autism.(4)A study published straight from the CDC and National Immunization program determined that the evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccines do not cause autism or any type of autism spectrum disorder. (5)The list literally goes on and on here, study after study in peer-reviewed scientific journals claim no link between vaccines/vaccine ingredients and autism.This is why many people reject the notion that vaccines could (in any way) be linked to autism. But that rejection is usually out of ignorance, and those guilty are parents, people like me and you, medical professionals and more. Its our tendency to believe what we are told (usually through mass marketing alone) without ever doing the research for ourselves.As I did in the previous section, I will try to start of with a couple of more recent studies. If vaccines arent linked to autism, why are scientists/researchers emphasizing that they could be, and showing that there is a possible link? (Keep in mind the Bradford -Hill Criteria, which is explained in some of the studies) These studies are contradictory to the ones above, yet conducted by people of the same qualifications and published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. Lets take a look.A study published in theJournal of Toxicologyby scientists from the University of British Colombia, Louisiana, and MIT outlines how Aluminum up until the 1820s -when the industrial extraction of AI made it possible to bring it into our food, manufacturing, medicines, and more -it was almost completely absent from the biosphere. The paper outlines how aluminum is harmful to the Central Nervous System (CNS), acting in a number of deleterious ways and across multiple levels to induce biosemiotic entropy. (6)Biosemiotic entropy is basically the corruption of biological messages from genetics, epigenetics, proteins, cells, tissues and organs. The paper points out how CNS problems are correlated with diseases like autism spectrum disorder, and makes a strong argument that Aluminum adjuvants in the form of pediatric vaccines could be contributing to increased rates of autism spectrum disorders. (page 8).One of the authors of this paper, Dr. Chris Shaw, a neurologist at the University of British Columbia explains the danger of aluminum in vaccines. When aluminum comes from a vaccine, it stays in the body, and studies have shown that the adjuvants do not stay localized but rather travel to the brain where they can be detected up to a year after the injection.A study published in the JournalCurrent Medical Chemistryin 2011 stated that:Aluminum is an experimentally demonstrated neurotoxin and the most commonly used vaccine adjuvant. Despite almost 90 years of widespread use of aluminum adjuvants, medical sciences understanding about their mechanisms of action is still remarkably poor. There is also a concerning scarcity of data on toxicology and pharmacokinetics of these compounds. In spite of this, the notion that aluminum in vaccines is safe appears to be widely accepted. Experimental research, however, clearly shows that aluminum adjuvants have a potential to induce serious immunological disorders in humans. In particular, aluminum in adjuvant form carries a risk for autoimmunity, long-term brain inflammation and associated neurological complications and may thus have profound and widespread adverse health consequences. (7)The paper points out how aluminum could be a culprit in the development of a wide body of neurodegenerative disease, one of them being autism.Here is a statement I took from the paper, for the specific citations you can look at the actual paper.The issue of vaccine safety thus becomes even more pertinent given that, to the best of our knowledge, no adequate clinical studies have been conducted to establish the safety of concomitant administration of two experimentally-established neurotoxins, aluminum and mercury, the latter in the form of ethyl mercury (thimerosal) in infants and children. Since these molecules negatively affect many of the same biochemical processes and enzymes implicated in the etiology of autism, the potential for a synergistic toxic action is plausible [31, 47]. Additionally, for the purpose of evaluating safety and efficacy, vaccine clinical trials often use an aluminium-containing placebo, either containing the same or greater amount of aluminum as the test vaccine [48-51]. Without exception, these trials report a comparable rate of adverse reactions between the placebo and the vaccine group (for example, 63.7% vs 65.3% of systemic events and 1.7% vs 1.8% of serious adverse events respectively [51]).The paper also points to the fact that brain inflammatory responses have long been recognized as a factor in etiology of many neurodegenerative diseases like autism and provides a host of citations for that as well.They (Dr, Shaw and Dr. Tomljenovic) also published a paper in 2011 that was approved for publication in theJournal of Inorganic Biochemistrythat stated:We show that Al-adjuvanted vaccines may be a significant etiological factor in the rising prevalence of ASD. According to the FDA, vaccines represent a special category of drugs as they are generally given to healthy individuals. Further according to the FDA, this places significant emphasis on their vaccine safety. While the FDA does set an upper limit for Aluminum in vaccines at no more that 850/mcg/dose, it is important to note that this amount was selected empirically from data showing that Aluminum in such amounts enhanced the antigenicity of the vaccine, rather than from existing safety. Given that the scientific evidence appears to indicate that vaccine safety is not as firmly established as often believed, it would seem ill advised to exclude paediatric vaccinations as a possible cause of adverse long-term neurodevelopment outcomes, including those associated with autism. (8)Shaw and Seneff also recently published a paper in the JournalImmunome Research outlining a lot of evidence pointing to the dangers regarding aluminum in vaccines. (9)A paper published in the peer reviewed International Journal ofEnvironmental Research and Public HealthtitledThimerosal Exposure and the Role of Sulfation Chemistry and Thiol Availability in Autismconcluded:With the rate of children diagnosed with an ASD in the US now exceeding 1 in 50 children and the rate of children withneurodevelopment/behavioural disorders in the US nowexceeding 1 in 6 children, and the preceding evidence showing that there is vulnerability to that would not be known without extensive testing, the preponderance of theevidence indicates that should be removed from all vaccines (10)A paper published in theJournal Entropy Identifiesseveral signs and symptoms that are significantly more prevalent in vaccine reports after 2000, including cellulitis, seizure, depression, fatigue, pain and death, which are also significantly associated with aluminum-containing vaccines. We propose that children with the autism diagnosis are especially vulnerable to toxic metals such as aluminum and mercury due to insufficient serum sulfate and glutathione. A strong correlation between autism and the MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) vaccine is also observed, which may be partially explained via an increased sensitivity to acetaminophen administered to control fever. (source)A paper published in the Journal of ToxicologytitledB-Lymphocytes from a population of Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and Their Unaffected Siblings Exhibit Hypersensitivity to Thimerosalclearly demonstrates that certain individuals with a mild mitochondrial defect may be highly susceptible to mitochondrial specific toxins like thimerosal. What does this mean? It means that people with a slight DNA difference are at risk for developing neurodegenerative diseases via vaccination. They determined that ASD patients have a heightened sensitivity to thimerosal which would restrict cell proliferation that is typically found after vaccination.(11)A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutritiondetermined that an increased vulnerability to oxidative stress and decreased capacity for methylation may contribute to the development and clinical manifestation of autism. Its well known that viral infections cause increased oxidative stress. (12) Research suggeststhat metals, including those found in many vaccines are directly involved in increasing oxidative stress.Oxidative stress, brain inflammation and microgliosis have been heavily documented in association with toxic exposures including various heavy metals. (14)A study published in the Journal of Biomedical Sciencesdetermined that the autoimmunity to the central nervous system may play a causal role in autism. Researchers discovered that because many autistic children harbour elevated levels of measles antibodies, they should conduct a serological study of measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) and myelin basic protein (MBP) autoantibodies. They used serum samples of 125 autistic children and 92 controlled children. Their analysis showed a significant increase in the level of MMR antibodies in autistic children. The study concludes that the autistic children had an inappropriate or abnormal antibody response to MMR. The study determined that autism could be a result from an atypical measles infection that produces neurological symptoms in some children. The source of this virus could be a variant of MV, or it could be the MMR vaccine.(13)A study published in the International Journal of Toxicologyoutlines the biological plausibility of mercurys role in neurodevelopmental disorders. It suggests that early mercury exposure could indeed increase the risk of autism. (14)To sum up, there has been a great deal of information from different studies that seems to indicate that repetitive mercury exposure during pregnancy, through thimerosal, dental amalgam, and fish consumption, and after birth, through thimerosal-containing vaccinations and pollution, in genetically susceptible individuals is one potential factor in autism. (source)A study conducted by the Department of Paediatrics at the University of Arkansasdetermined that thimerosal-induced cytotoxicity was associated with the depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH) in both cell lines.The study outlines how many vaccines have been neurotoxic, especially to the developing brain. Depletion of GSH is commonly associated with autism. Although thimerosal has been removed from most childrens vaccines, it is still present in flu vaccines given to pregnant women, the elderly and to children in developing countries. (15)The assertion that vaccine-autism concerns rest merely on spurious claims made by uneducated parents is in stark contrast with a large body of scientific literature. As mentioned previously, extensive research data has underscored the tight connection between development of the immune system and that of the CNS, and thus the plausibility that disruption of critical events in immune development may play a role in neurobehavioral disorders including those of the autism spectrum. Indeed, early-life immune challenges in critical windows of developmental vulnerability have been shown to produce long-lasting, highly abnormal cognitive and behavioral responses, including increased fear and anxiety, impaired social interactions, deficits in object recognition memory and sensorimotor gating deficits. These symptoms are highly characteristic of autism. It is thus indeed naive to assume that a manipulation of the immune system through an increasing number of vaccinations during sensitive periods of early development will not result in adverse neurological outcomes. Consistent with this, Shoenfeld and Cohen (worlds leading experts in autoimmune diseases) noted that, vaccines have a predilection to affect the nervous system [emphasis added]. Also, please refer to a number of publications we and others have authored on this subject (link between immune challenges and adverse neurological outcomes. For specific publications on the links between vaccinations and autism, refer to the following citations . Lucija Tomljenovic, who has a PhD in biochemistry and is a senior postdoctoral fellow in UBCs Faculty of Medicine. (source)For more studies you can refer to these to start off your research.Gallagher, C.M. and Goodman, M.S. (2010) Hepatitis B vaccination of male neonates and autism diagnosis, NHIS 1997-2002. J Toxicol Environ Health A 73, 1665-77.Gallagher, C.M. and Goodman, M.S. (2008) Hepatitis B triple series vaccine and developmental disability in US children aged 1-9 years. Tox Env Chem. 90, 997-1008.The list literally goes on and on, study after study in peer-reviewed scientific journals claim a possible link between vaccines/vaccine ingredients and autism.So, for the pro-vaccine community to say there is no link, and cant be a link, and that vaccines could not be one out of several possible causes contributing to the development of autism seems a little bit ridiculous, dont you think?As you can see above, there are many peer-reviewed studies published in scientific journals by experts at various institutions claiming no link. On the other hand, we have the same type of research, also in abundance that claims there could be a link, and that it is probable and through science theyve shown how.What are parents who do their research supposed to think when they come across this information? Why is the pro vac side so adamant on saying that there are no scientific peer-reviewed published studies that posit a potential link to autism when there are many.So, this is one reason why parents are choosing not to vaccinate their children. To say there is absolutely no way a vaccine can be a contributing factor in causing autism is completely false and dangerous.The medical profession is being bought by the pharmaceutical industry, not only in terms of the practice of medicine, but also in terms of teaching and research. The academic institutions of this country are allowingthemselvestobe the paid agents of the pharmaceutical industry. I think itsdisgraceful. (source)(source)Arnold Seymour Relman (1923-2014), Harvard Professor of Medicine and Former Editor-in-Chief of the New England Medical JournalWhen a parent points to the idea that scientific and industry fraud contributed to their decision to not vaccine their child, they can instantly be deemed conspiracy theorists or greeted with some sort of rude response that makes them out to be fools. This couldnt be further from the truth, and those types of responses often come from those who have failed to do any investigation for themselves.Condemnation without investigation is the height of ignorance.Here is why parents are actually pointing to scientific/industry fraud when it comes to making their decision, and to be honest, with this type of information out in the public domain, who can really blame them?Its hard to know where to start when there are so many examples:In the past few years more professionals have come forward to share a truth that, for many people, proves difficult to swallow. One such authorityisDr. Richard Horton, the current editor-in-chief of the Lancet considered to be one of the most well respected peer-reviewed medical journals in the world.Dr. Horton recently published a statement declaring thata lot of published researchis in fact unreliable at best, if not completely false.The case against science is straightforward: much of the scientific literature, perhaps half, may simply be untrue. Afflicted by studies with small sample sizes, tiny effects, invalid exploratory analyses, and flagrant conflicts of interest, together with an obsession for pursuing fashionable trends of dubious importance, science has taken a turn towards darkness. (source) Lucija Tomljenovic,who has a PhD in biochemistry and is a senior postdoctoral fellow in UBCs Faculty of Medicine, is also a medical investigator. A few years ago she uncovered documents that reveal vaccine manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and health authorities have known about multiple dangers associated with vaccines but chose to withhold them from the public. This is scientific fraud, and suggests that this practice continues to this day. The documents were obtained from the UK Department of Health (DH) and the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization (JCVI), who advise the Secretaries of State for Health in the UK about diseases preventable through immunizations. The JCVI made continuous efforts to withhold critical data on severe adverse reactions and contraindications to vaccinations to both parents and health practitioners in order to reach overall vaccination rates.The transcripts of the JCBI meetings also show that some of theCommittee members had extensive ties to pharmaceutical companies and that the JCVI frequently co-operated with vaccine manufactures on the strategies aimed at boosting vaccine uptake. Some of themeetings at which such controversial items were discussed were not intended to be publiclyavailable, as the transcripts were only released later,through the Freedom of Information Act (FOI). These particular meetings are denoted in the transcripts as commercial in confidence, and reveal a clear anddisturbing lack of transparency, as some of the information was removed from the text (i.e., the names of theparticipants) prior to transcript release under the FOI section at the JCVI website. (16)A congressional record from May 1, 2003 shows that there could be, and that many scientists themselves believe that there is a high risk of autism as a result of Thimerosal-containing vaccines. Again, this is a congressional report and parents who choose not to ignore it should not be bashed by others, dont you think? The report even shows information from the CDCs own Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD) that postulates the vaccine-autism connection. (17) Insider whistle-blowers with verified credentials have also played a role with parents who areconcernedabout vaccinating theirchildren. This type of thing has been going on for quite a while. Take Robert F. Kennedy Jr for example. He repeatedly stated that there is a cover up of data that clearly shows a definitive link between vaccines and autism. He also alluded to the fact that he has met with some of these people, that they know what they are doing, and that they are terrified of the public ever finding out. Think about that for a second, we have the former presidents nephew, who has been in elitist circles and obviously in and around people whove held powerful positions making these comments. Of course these are concerning comments, and to not completely dismiss them as false isnt a bad thing. One of the biggest concerns for parents was the fact that he, in June 2005, authored an article in Rolling Stone and Salon.com alleging a government conspiracy to cover up connections between vaccines and autism. Both of the articles were retracted. (18)(19) There are many speeches he made, and compelling statements that are available in the form of articles and YouTube videos if you are interested in seeing more.Although a whistle-blower is not science, it does add to the science that is already there by giving it an extra leg so to speak. stuff like this seems to be cropping up every year giving parents more reasons not to vaccinate their children, just as it is cropping up every year giving parents more reasons to vaccinate their children.We also have statements (hundreds) from scientists and doctors like this one (quote below) which also seem to be contributing to a lack of trust for vaccine manufacturers and the studies they sponsor. Much of the published scientific studies that say there is no need to worry about vaccines, and that there is no autism link are actually sponsored by the vaccine manufactures themselves:It is simply no longer possible to believe much of the clinical research that is published, or to rely on the judgement of trusted physicians or authoritative medical guidelines. I take no pleasure in this conclusion, which I reached slowly and reluctantly over my two decades as an editor of the New England Journal of Medicine (considered to be one of the most prestigious peer-reviewed medical journals in the world). Dr Marcia Angell, Physician, Author, Former Editor in Chief of the NEJM (20)A more recent example (and perhaps one of the biggest) would be long time CDC scientist, Dr. William Thompson. In fact, he has authored and co-authored dozens of studies, many of which are commonly pointed out by the pro-vaccine movement. A couple of them are actually cited above that show there is no link between vaccines and autism. Just a few months ago this is what he had to say:The CDC has put the research 10 years behind, because the CDC has not been transparent. Weve missed 10 years of research because the CDC is so paralyzed right now by anything related to autism. Really what we need is for congress to come in and say, give us the data. (22)He pointed to a specific study that he co-authored,a 2004 CDC study commonly cited and used by the scientific community, among others, that determined:The evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autism spectrum disorder. (21)He also alluded to another study published in theJournal of Pediatricsthat concluded:The evidence is now convincing that the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine does not cause autism or any particular subtypes of autism spectrum disorder. (23)This is what he had to say about that study:Its the lowest point in my career that I went along with that paper and uh, I went along with this, we didnt report significant findings. Im completely ashamed of what I did, I have great shame now that I was complicit and went along with this, I have been a part of the problem.(22)This story was becoming so big across alternative news networks, like CE, that mainstream media outlets like CNN picked up on it as quick as they could and tried to spin the story. At least they admitted that yes, Dr. Thompson did actually blow the whistle:I regret that my co-authors and I omitted statistically significant information in our 2004 article, Thompson said in a statement sent to CNN by his lawyer. I have had many discussions with Dr. Brian Hooker over the last 10 months regarding studies the CDC has carried out regarding vaccines and neurodevelopmental outcomes, including autism spectrum disorders. I share his belief that CDC decision-making and analyses should be transparent. (24)(25)That being said, he also said in an official statement from his lawyers on August 27th 2014.I want to be absolutely clear that I believe vaccines have saved and continue to save countless lives. I would never suggest that any parent avoid vaccinating children of any race. Vaccines prevent serious diseases, and the risks associated with their administration are vastly outweighed by their individual and societal benefits. (25)This brings me to my next point. With regards to the data omitted above,Dr. Thompson made the call to scientist Dr. Brian Hooker (22)(24)(25), who published the real findings which found that there was a 340 percent increased chance of autism in African American boys receiving the MMR vaccine on time. The study was published in the peer-reviewed journalTranslational Neurodegeneration and was retracted a couple of days later.(26) This is why I am linking it here and not with the studies above (first point).That being said, Dr. Hooker has published a number of peer-reviewed studies that have appeared in reputable scientific journals. The journalTranslational Neurodegeneration being one, where his studyprovided epidemiological evidence supporting an association between increasing organic-Hg exposure from Thimerosal-containing childhood vaccines and the risk of an ASD diagnosis. (27) Furthermore, an abstract obtained by Hooker showsincreased risk of developmental neurologic impairment after high exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccine in the first month life. (28)Here is a video of a pro-vaccine congressman telling us about this case.As you can see, parents who cite scientific/industry fraud as one of the reasons for not vaccinating their child holds a great deal of validity. Most vaccine supporters are completely unaware of this information, which is understandable, its not really out there so to speak, its something you have to look for. These are just a few of many examples, as I am trying to make this article as short as possible (not easy).During the mid-1970s, there was an increased focus on personal health and more people became concerned about vaccine safety. Several lawsuits were filed against vaccine manufacturers and healthcare providers by people who believed they had been injured by vaccines, and the evidence presented in court was good enough to win.As a result, this act was developed to protect any pharmaceutical company, doctor or medical association from any fault. Its not about pointing fingers, many people really do believe that every vaccine is fine to inject into somebody. Instead of suing the vaccine manufacturer directly, they have to go through a long process where parents have to ask the government to admit that the vaccine was responsible for their childs injury, and ask for compensation for the childs care.Pharmaceutical companies are exempt from participating in these proceedings, and tax payers are the ones who pay for all the