The first definition of the word safe is "harmless." This definition would imply that any negative consequence of a vaccine would make the vaccine unsafe. Using this definition, no vaccine is 100 percent safe. Almost all vaccines can cause pain, redness or tenderness at the site of injection. And some vaccines cause more severe side effects. For example, the pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine can cause persistent, inconsolable crying, high fever or seizures associated with fever. Although none of these severe symptoms result in permanent damage, they can be quite frightening to parents. But, in truth, few things meet the definition of "harmless." Even everyday activities contain hidden dangers. For example, every year in the United States, 350 people are killed in bath- or shower-related accidents, 200 people are killed when food lodges in their windpipe, and 100 people are struck and killed by lightning. However, few of us consider eating solid food, taking a bath, or walking outside on a rainy day as unsafe activities. We just figure that the benefits of the activity clearly outweigh the risks. The second definition of the word safe is "having been preserved from a real danger." Using this definition, the danger (the disease) must be significantly greater than the means of protecting against the danger (the vaccine). Or, said another way, a vaccine's benefits must clearly and definitively outweigh its risks. To better understand the definition of the word safe when applied to vaccines, let's examine four dierent vaccines and the diseases they prevent. Hear Dr. Offit explain the risks and benefits of vaccines by watching this short video, part of the Talking About Vaccines with Dr. Paul Offit video series. The hepatitis B vaccine has few side effects. However, one side effect is serious. About 1 of every 600,000 doses of hepatitis B vaccine is complicated by a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. The symptoms of anaphylaxis are hives, difficulty breathing and a drop in blood pressure. Although no one has ever died because of the hepatitis B vaccine, the symptoms of anaphylaxis caused by the vaccine can be quite frightening. On the other hand, every year about 5,000 people die soon after being infected with hepatitis B virus. In addition, about 10,000 people every year suffer severe liver damage (called cirrhosis) or liver cancer caused by hepatitis B virus. People are much more likely to develop these severe and often fatal consequences of hepatitis B virus infection if they get infected when they are very young children. For this reason, the hepatitis B vaccine is recommended for newborns. Some parents wonder whether it is necessary to give the hepatitis B virus vaccine to newborns. They ask: "How is a baby going to catch hepatitis B?" But, befor the hepatitis B virus vaccine, every year in the United States about 18,000 children less than 10 years of age caught hepatitis B virus from someone other than their mother. Some children catch it from another family member, and some children catch it from someone outside the home who comes in contact with the baby. About 1 million people in the United States are infected with hepatitis B virus. However, because hepatitis B virus can cause a silent infection (meaning without obvious symptoms), many people who are infected with hepatitis B virus don't know that they have it. So it can be hard to tell from whom you could catch hepatitis B virus. Worse yet, many people don't realize that you can catch hepatitis B virus after coming into contact with minute quantities of blood through casual contact with someone who is infected (for example, sharing washcloths or toothbrushes). In fact, a milliliter of blood (about one-fifth of a teaspoon) from someone who is infected can contain as many as 1 billion infectious viruses, so people can be infected with quantities of infected blood small enough that they are not visible to the naked eye. Because the benefits of the hepatitis B vaccine clearly and definitively outweigh its risks, the hepatitis B vaccine is safe.