All medicines have side effects. However, vaccines are among the safest and the benefits of vaccinations far outweigh the risk of side effects.Whenyou're considering a vaccination for yourself or your child,it's natural tofocuson the potential side effects. But a better approach is to try to balance the benefits of having a vaccine against the chances of harm.Most side effects from vaccination are mild and short-lived.It's quitecommon to have redness or swelling around the injection site, but this soon goes away.Younger children or babies may bea bit irritable or unwell, or have a slight temperature. Again, this usually goes away withinone or two days.Read thisNHSleaflet about the common side effects of vaccinations in babies and children up to five years of age (PDF, 118kb).In much rarer cases,some people have an allergic reaction soon after a vaccination. Thisis usuallya rash or itching that affects part or all ofthe body. The GPsand nurseswho givethe vaccine are trainedin how to treat this.On very rare occasions,a severe allergic reaction may happen within a few minutes of the vaccination. This iscalled an anaphylactic reaction. It can lead to breathing difficulties and, in some cases, collapse.Remember that anaphylactic reactions are extremely rare (less than one in a million). Vaccination staff are trained to deal with this, andthese reactions arecompletely reversible if treated promptly.Find out how to report a side effect of a vaccination.Vaccination is different from giving medicine to an unwell child to make them better. The benefits of vaccination are invisible. The idea is that your child won't become ill with measles or end up in intensive care with meningitis.It may be tempting to say "no" to vaccination and "leave it to nature". However,deciding not to vaccinate your child puts them at risk of catching a range of potentially serious, even fatal, diseases.In reality, having a vaccination is much safer than not having one. They're not 100% effective in every child, but they're the best defence against the epidemics that used tokill or permanently disablemillions of children and adults.Read more about the safety of vaccinations.